[August 2024  Vol. 40-No.8  ‘Unit numbers shown in parentheses  officers Praicent-Jin Stewart (7) ce Presidente auling (10) Secretary-Martin Kk (23) Treasurer Randy Tipp (8)  Board Members Lary Dragan (16) EizabethEdgren (South) Stacey Hannah (6)  Seal Jordan (3)  Heid Komi (3)  Ph Krehel(4) Kathleen Caughey (5) audi che (3) Suresh Neelagaru (15) arthur Romero (7)  ery Waker (1).  Committee chai Architectural Control Committe (ACC) ‘Communication & Publications Commitee (cAP)-cladia Machel community Service & Membership Commitee (¢SAM)- Flaabeth Edgren Covenant Support Commitee (C5C) ‘arthur Romero Evironment & Safety Committe (EBS). athien McCaughey France Committee (F)-Randy Tipp Nominating Commitee (NC) Er Fong  Office Staff Lead administrator Trish Lovato Adminstrator -Mope Fryer  SHHA Office 12700 Son Rafe! Avenue NE, Ste 3 fffce Hours! Mon-Thurs, 9 as— 4 Gosed on federal holidays.  Phone 5057977793 Fa 5053568544  Webalte: wwe sandiahomeawners.ong mals ssha@sandihomeovnes.r8, randaheghts@comcast.net,  Message from the President, August 2024 Jim Stewart  Howdy Neighbors,  This month I'd like to highlight the work done by the Covenant Support Committee (CSC), ably led by the Chair, Art Romero. You might think that they are typically overwhelmed with covenant complaints, but that is simply not true. At any given time, the volunteers on that committee are processing eight to ten complaints...for a community of 2172 homes, that is not bad in my estimation.  ‘A major shout out to Elizabeth Edgren, Chair of the Community Service and Membership Committee (CS8M) and her team, for setting up the an- ‘ual shredding event last June, It was well received by your neighbors who took advantage of the opportunity to clean out some of their files.  Now..a commercial message. Elizabeth and Art could use a couple more committee members, soif youhave that community spirt and can devote two to three hours per month, we have an opportunity for you. You are welcome to attend one of their committee meetings, if you'd like to see them in action before you commit. Please shoot me an email and I will connect you with one of them. In addition, see page 8 for another com: mittee's request for members.  The monthly ‘rant’: dogs not on a leash. Ths issue is primarily confined to ‘our two ‘pocket parks,’ neither of which is a leash-free area. ! know that the dogs the Princess and | encounter are all well trained and respond to voice commands (not realy...), ut twice in the last couple of months we have had unfortunate encounters. Please...if you want to run unleashed, hop in your car..with your faithful companion..and drive to one of the several dog parks that allow for unleashed dogs.  Remember our office staff is available five days a week. Please reach out to them via email ora phone call with your Issues or concerns. Of course, you can also reach out to me at president@sandiahomeowners.org,  | promise you will receive a response. Judy Chreist, SHHA Awardee  Judy Chrelst, retiring after eleven years on the Covenant Support committee, receives award for exemplary ser- vice and dedication to the Sandia Heights Homeowners ‘Association. Congratulations, Judy!  E-Bikes and Micromobility Devices Allowed in ‘Open Space to be Discussed at Albuquerque City Council August sth Meeting Right Thing to Do?  Kathleen McCaughey, Chair E8S Committee  The City of Albuquerque is amending portions of their traffic code pertaining to OPEN SPACE and e-bikes and ‘micromobilty devices. If approved, municipal paved or dirt paths set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, OR paths designated for bicycles, pedestrians, motorcycles andlor horses, will allow ebikes and powered micro- ‘mobility devices.  Unless the area is posted at 20 mph, these devices can drive up to 30 mph. When on the same path with pedes-  2 The GRIT — August 2024 - Volume 40- No.8  trians, they can be dangerous. E-bikes can be heavier than regular bikes, making them less maneuverable when encountering other people, important when con- sidering the trails they would be on. E:bike fires have been proven to be deadly and difficult to control due to chemicals in the batteries, Again, in the foothills during. dry months, this could lead to disastrous fires.  ‘The meeting will be held at 5 PM inthe Vincent E. Griego Council Chambers, basement level of the City of Albu querque Government Center, 1 Civic Plaza NW, Albu: querque, New Mexico 87102. Interested persons can also contact councilors@cabq.gov with their opinions.  Definitions E-Bikes are defined as bicycles having 2-3 wheels, oper: able pedals, and an electric motor, Class 1,2, or 3. This includes motors up to 750 watts that provide assis- tance whether pedaling or not, but that cease to pro- vide power when the bicycle reaches a speed of 28 ‘miles per hour. Micromobility devices have a curb ‘weight of <100 Ibs., power up to 750 watts, and a top speed up to 30 mph.  Preview Exhibit Kicks Off Sandia Heights Artists? 21" Tour Claudia Mitchell  ‘The Twenty-First Sandia Heights Artists Tour is fast ap: poaching! This year you have the chance to get.a sneak preview of what is coming. A show with examples of ‘each artist's work will be featured throughout August at the Gallery ABQ in Hoffmantown at 8210 Menaul Bivd. NE. The gallery is open Tuesday through Saturday, 114. Events during the month wil include the First Fri- day Arts Craw, August 2, 5:8 PM and well asa Meet the Axtists reception Saturday, August 10, noon-4 PM. This {s an excellent opportunity for an overview of what will bbe included during the tour, September 7 and 8 from 0: 5. For more gallery information visit ‘woww.thegalleryaba.com .  In addition, if you are traveling or meeting visitors, the Albuquerque Sunport will host a sampling of Sandia Heights artists’ work in a showcase exhibit at the en- trance to the lower-level parking from August -29..  = continued on page 3 1. continued from page 2  ‘The Sandia Heights Artists Tourhas become a venerable ‘annual event. The work begins in the spring and this year will culminate with 43 artists at fourteen locations ‘on September 7 & 8, 0-5. You can download a brochure at wwwsandiaheightsartists.com. Don’t miss it!  Itallstarted as justa thought 21 years ago. Inearly 2004, ‘a Sandia Heights artists tour was the idea of two Sandia Heights artist friends: Lynda Burch and Ralph Rudolph. Ralph, then SHHA board president, prepared a motion for the activity, got board approval, and sent out aletter to Sandia Heights residents to assess interest. Folks re sponded, they met around kitchen tables, made plans, produced and distributed a black and white flyer, and ‘onOctober 24, 2004, the first Sandia Heights artists tour ‘was held with seven exhibitors opening their studios to the public. It was called “Arts View @ Sandia Heights.” Founding partner, Lynda Burch (CRIT interview June 2023), wore many hats to make the tour a reality. She continues to do so and has exhibited every year since.  Barb Nabler (GRIT interview August 2023), moved to ‘Sandia Heights in 2004, but too late to join in the nas cent event. She visited the tour and immediately thought, “OK, I'm going to be a part ofthis next year!” In subsequent years, she started hosted planning ses- sions at her home until the group became too big for her living room and they moved to an offsite venue for ‘meetings. Barb continues her participation this year, as always.  In addition to Lynda and Barb, many Sandia Heights art [sts continued to participate: Barb Boedeker (GRIT in: terview April 2024) joined in 2006; Carol Erickson (GRIT Interview August 2023) and Marta Burckley (GRIT inter view June 2023) started in 2009. Mary Ellen Merrigan (GRIT interview July 2023) joined in 201. They were ‘among the early artists who helped lay the foundation for this artistic venue.  ‘The modest 2004 inaugural event grew in depth, organ: ization and quality. By 2013 there were 20 artists in 12 locations. in 2015 the watermelon pink logo was created and is still the distinctive “trademark” of what has be: come “The Sandia Heights Artists.” A professional qual: ity color brochure replaced the black and-white flyers. ‘The tour gained prestige, and it was decided to bring in juried guest artists. Financial partners were successfully recruited to help with the expenses of publicity and sup: port. The group decided to sponsor a charity, La Mesa ‘Act Academy. Last year marked the twentieth anniver- sary of the tour with resident and guest artists totaling fifty participants.  Note: The back issues of The GRIT noted in this article can be easily accessed on the SHHA website www.san: diahomeowners.org. In the gray banner at the top of the home page, click on the tab labelled “GRIT Newslet ter.”  ET] Tian Aneta tases et on SNOW Satin Raped 200-0-Coome =k eg  2024 Sandia Heights Ariat Sto Tour PREVIEW.  he  {3 The GRIT August 2024 - Volume 40 No. 8 JUNE CALLS TO SANDIA HEIGHTS SECURITY PATROL  The following statistics are the latest provided by Sandia Meights Security since the last GRIT. Please be reminded that Sandia Heights Services (they provide water, sewer, trash and recycle collection, and security services) sa subscription service separate from Sandia Heights Homeowners Association membership. Aso, Membership in SHHAdoes not include Sandia Heights Security membership. You can call Security to confirm your membership with them. if you have questions, please call Sandia Heights Security t (505) 8566347, mobile (505) 263-4654,  June 2024 # of calls, #of calls Alarms 1 Special Request/Vacation 7 Customer Assist 6 Suspicious Activity 1 Newspaper! package pickup 24 Suspicious person 2 Noise Complaint/Suspicious Noise 1 Suspicious vehicle 10 Open Door / Window / Garage 1 Wildlife report Pet Nuisance 1 Welfare Check Salesman complaint 4 Threat/personal snake call 2 Special extra patrol 2 Total 189  ‘Useful Numbers: Emergency Police/Fire Rescue: 9-1 (Be sure fo et the operator know you are in Sandia Heights - an unincorporated area of Beralilo County) Bernalillo County Sheriff Non-Emergency: (505) 798-7000 Bernalillo County Fire Department Non-Emergency: (505) 468-1310 SHS Water/Sewer Emergencles (M# 7AM ~ 4PM): (505) 8566345 SHS WaterSewer Emergencies After Hours: (505) 888:5336 NM Gas Co. Emergencies: (505) 6973335 PNM Outage & Emergencles: 888-342-5766  Announcements & Notices: ‘office hours: Mon ~Thur9 AM-4 PM. Frig AM Noon, Eni  + Board Meeting: the SHA Annual Meeting 9 am. £ get your windows done  ‘office Closures for Holiday(s}: Monday: February 19 for  the Washington's Birthday holiday 7  ‘ cen ~ en ‘nomen New Horizon  ‘Notary services (Tues-Thurs, by appointment) s  copies (0 per month) and faxes, email alert, and windowcleaning co.  contractor evaluation binder, fre to members + Offers reliable,  ee ee ete Or retaie, analy  calendar: www sanciahomeowners.org «Free estimates.  ‘Classified ads can be found onthe website onthe top foe  bbarmenu under Notices and information Classifieds eee  «Safety vests forsale inthe SHHA Oifice. $3.00 per vest peels a  for members, cash or check only &  ‘Tram passes forsale in the SHHA Ofice. 10.00 per ticket 20 panes inside and out for $98.00!  for members on afirstcome fst served bass. Cashor Each addtional pane at $4.00  check ony Tickets purchased must be for one date at a  time per residence. To view the Tram Pass Procedures for Call Henrik Wits today  'SHHA Members go to theSHHA website. 506-206-0035  «+ Please note: the Tram wile closed January through Wer Nesaesisa ial  atleast March 13,2024 for upgrades. ‘S00 more at newnorzenwndowcleaning com 4. The GRIT Aug 2024 - Volume 40 — No. 8  (505) $22-0080 DIRECT | (505) 269-6217 CELI  gi ii sai | eer genom soson” iti Sa Si re es es a Callen or amy Slee aed fea ae aap ne peiras aan pati SS ee are ewe e emit siimniateatene  pea onload Coren Inert rater hoveing rnd ™.125% for 30 year comentonal &708 30 yearVA?  SOLD: SOLD! : SOLD!  1G San Rail Ave NE 1726 QualRan CoE 730 Tamu Lane NE  123 Qa NE  ANOTHER GREAT SANDIA HEIGHTS HOME SOLD! 2027 QUAIL RUN CT'NE| ASKING PRICE $475,000 | 1886 SF [3BR|2 BATHS 2 CAR GARAG  ‘Custom Home!  Quality Features! Views!  “GREAT MARKET! BUYERS ARE STILL BUYING! READY TOSELL YOUR HOME?  ‘SHARON BELIEVES IN DOING WHAT IS RIGHT FOR YOU AND YOUR FAMILY WHEN IT COMES TO SELLING AND BUYI  Understated Elegance !  REALESTATE.  Tbuquerque  6 The GRIT ~ Aug 2024 - Volume 40 - No.8 Sandia Heights YTD MARKET TRENDS Year to date January,2024 to July,2024  $691,313 from 2023,  Sandia Heights Home Values - year over year  ‘Medion Sales Price - Single Family Detached  $700,000 $600,000 $500,000 $400,000  $300,000 $200,000 $100,000 . | | ‘12014 12016 1-2018 12020 1202212024 We continuously improve our strategies and | Free Tram Passes techniques to deliver better results. ‘Available “Maximize your home sale with our expert staging, ELADEENO photography, and marketing. Our experienced team generates excitement, attracting potential buyers and ensuring top value for your property.”  We market our listings locally, in Santa Fe and Internationally.  wecuenwiiiians Veronica Gonzales WX WIV ‘Associate Broker, CRS intenwarionac() _ Veronica@ABQDreamHomes.com www. ABQDreamHomes.com  505-440-8956  6 The GRIT ~ Aug 2024 - Volume 40 ~ No. 8 Have You Heard of the Sherds? Part 2 Stan Davis  The Jaral Pueblito was located just east of North Sandia Heights (NSH) within the National Forest (see The GRIT, July 2024). Field work of the remaining foundation ‘stones demonstrated that this pueblito was one of the largest of many that existed along the Foothills. Figure | shows a sketch map of the pueblito made by archaeo ‘ogist (and former Sandia Heights resident) Hayward Franklin (H. Franklin, 2023). Figure 2 shows a picture of Hayward overlooking a lower portion of Jaral Canyon ‘ona field visit with me in May 2024. Analysis by Hayward of the pottery sherds found at the site demonstrated It ‘was also one of the longest lasting pueblitos. This lab ‘work also provided clues as to the provenance of the ceramics. First, a source of good-quality clay was ‘needed, and Franklin (2021) identified nearby Red Gulch (The GRIT, May 2024), where the Triassic Chinle for- mation is weathering into red and yellow clays, as @ likely source. Next, microscopic analysis revealed the ‘tempers that were added to the clay to reduce shrink ‘age and add strength to the pottery. The Jaral ceramics used crushed granite almost exclusively as the temper. Given the proximity of abundant granite at Jara, this suggests much of the pottery was made at the pueblito itself. Some samples contain basalt temper, indicating, these were manufactured down in the Rio Grande Val ley. Other types of temper suggest provenances further afield, including perhaps Galisteo Basin. Some of the lead used in glazing may have even come from the Cer- fills Hills,  Figure 1. Sketch map oflarel Pueblito  7. The GRIT August 2024 - Volume 40 No.8  <  Figure 2. Hayward Franklin overlooking the Jaral Canyon  According to the archaeologists (H. Franklin, 2021, P. Da: vis, 1984), Jaral Canyon had been home to various occu: ppants, at least seasonally for 500 years and probably longer. The area had access to water, hunting and gath- fering. Granite boulder shelter sites with sherds and lithic debris present indicate they may have been used as blinds for ambushing prey, or atleast to prepare for 22 hunt. Construction of seasonal outposts away from the main villages is a well-documented practice in the Southwest. These foothills pueblitos almost certainly could not have survived long on their own, but must have been closely associated with the large pueblos in the Valley.  With time the quality of the Jaral ceramics began to de- line. One interpretation for this is that the population was becoming increasingly stressed from Spanish occu: pation. Possibly, certain pottery skils were not being passed down to younger generations, or that manufac: ture time was becoming an issue. There are many refer ences to pueblo peoples who “fled to the sierras” toes cape the marauders. References mention Jaral as being, livedin during the Coronado expedition, and that it may hhave served as a somewhat hidden refuge up to and during the Pueblo Revolt of 1680, after which there are ‘no sherds dated at Jaral. Downstream the Jaral Canyon drainage bends west to become the arroyo that divides the northern and southern parts of NSH. Next time you cross the low dip of Spring Creek Drive, where it crosses that arroyo, imagine pueblo peoples hundreds of years ‘ago traveling up the arroyo for, presumably, peaceful summers of hunting and gathering subsistence, then during the declining years of the puebito, fleeing up the arroyo for thei very existence.  ---continued on page 8 ‘continued from page 7  References Davis, Phyllis S, 1984, The Cosme Garcia Homestead and Six Other Selected Sites in Jaral Cenyon, NM, Albuquerque Archae- ‘ological Socety, Albuquerque, NM, unpublished.  Franklin, Hayward H,, 2021, Ancient Pueblitos of the Sandia Foothills, Maxwell Museum of Anthropology Technical Series No. 36, Unversity of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM.  Franklin, Hayward H, 2010, The Pottery of Jaral Pueblo (LA 47873), «PIV Settlement in the Foothills of the Sendia Moun. tains, in Pottery Southwest, Vol. 29, No.3 Fall 2010, SSN 0738. 8020,  ‘A Message from Your Dog  Reprinted with permission from a social media post  | shouldn't walk and run beside you today. Because | am 2a loyal dog, | often go beyond my limits. So, | do walk and un beside you, standing still when you want me to. ‘Andall the while I feel my paws burning. Even as little as five minutes can cause severe damage to my paws and could even be fatal. My whole body starts boiling. But Pllkeep going because | amas loyal as loyal comes. | de- pend on you to know what's in my best interest. So in stead, let me stay at home where | can enjoy the sun, with a large bow! of water somewhere in the shade. A cool area would be best. With all the love I have in the whole world, | give itll to you. Love, your dog.  {8 The GRIT August 2024 - Volume 40 No. 8  When the air temp is ..the asphalt temp can this... bbe as much as this 7 ns 86" 135° Ca 143"  ‘At 12°F, skin destruction can happen in 60 seconds. (Bata from James J. Berens, JAMA 214 (1970) 2025-7)  ‘Communication and Publication Committee  Needs Help!  Want to help keep your Sandia Heights community in the know with interesting and pertinent information? Love words? Like to write? Do you have computer edit- ing experience? If so, we want YOU! Join the word: smiths onthe Communication and Publications Commit: tee. The C&P committee meets monthly. We publish The GAIT and the annual Resident Guide and Directory, and facilitate other communications with SHHA members. f interested, contact Claudia Mitchell at shha@san- diahomeowners.org  Community Events Bulletin Board These groups ae nat sponsored by SHA. Information is rovided o keep residents informed.  ‘Sandia Heights “Cork & Fork” Dining Activity: Cork. {& Fork has resumed having bimonthly dinners. We gather in the homes of our members. Each small dinner group is typically 6-8 people, including the hosts. The host decides the menu theme and pre- pares a main dish, with attendees contributing to some part of the meal—along with a wine to go with their dish, The emphasis is on food and fun ra- ther than formal elegance. Though most of the din- ners are smaller, there are two whole-group dinners during the year. All adult Sania Heights residents ‘are welcome. To inquire or join any time of year, call Rene Kessel at (505) 504-3886 or email at rene.kessel@cblegacy.com.  Fall bridge classes start Sept. 7 at the Duke City Bridge Club! Whether you are starting your bridge Joumey or refreshing your knowledge, there's 2 «lass for you. No partner required. Four neighbors + bridge - an excting and challenging new hobby. Call 505-271-2877, email debcbridge@gmail.com , or visit https:lldukecitybridge.com)  TRUSTED IN SANDIA HEIGHTS FOR OVER 25 YEARS. wont avo me NO AT ou anomo%s vmwBow RAMs ALTO HOKE PROEAN IOS  cu a cose ora rector. (505) 220-21  MAX M. SANCHEZ, JR. Associate Broker, MBA CRS  ‘9 The GRIT — Aug 2024 - Volume 40— No, 8 WILL YOU BE READY WHEN THE LIGHTS GO GUT?  Power Generation Servic is your local generator expert, Tad Jennings has been seling, servicing, and renting standby [power throughout Albuquerque and the stato of New Mexico for 30 years. The team at Power Generation Service can take you trom concept to final installation and beyond with annual ‘maintenance service to assure your generator will perform at time of need. All major brands of generators are currenty available at our Northeast Albuquerque location at 8702 Menaul Bivd NE from Generac, Kohler, Briggs & Stratton to ‘small portable and RV gon sets. Callus today!  > GENERAC KOHLER. Free consultations ‘Tad@PowerGenerationService.com 505-323-2032  505-293-4100 ‘www. powergenerationservice.com See  We work with complexity, so you can live with simplicity  10 The GRIT Aug 2024 - Volume 40- No.8 ‘Success in Shreds? - thanks to your dues! ‘Community Service & Membership Committee  ‘The SHHA-sponsored shredding event on June 29" ‘was a quiet success. No long lines, no wat; lots of per- ‘sonal info now safely destroyed and out of the way.  Randy Tenorio and his son Nick of Scintilla Shredding parked by the SHHA office for three hours on a mild, cloudy Saturday morning. They went car to car with rolling bins to gather whatever papers people had brought, whether a small grocery sack ora few rubber. banded stacks or more than 2 dozen banker's boxes full. When filled, the bins are parked at the base of a chute on the truck, where they are clamped, ifted, and ‘emptied into the shredding device in the truck. No dust, no wisps of shreds floating through the air. When. they finish a shredding event, they drive to a recycling location where the fine shreds are dumped, mixed with ‘other huge piles of shreds, baled, and shipped to Mex ‘co. There the shreds are processed into pulp and recy- led into all manner of new paper goods.  More than 50 cars (and three residents on foot) were ‘glad to clean out and securely dispose of lots of paper.  This is one of several ways we aim to put your member. ship dues to good use.  VHGGGG  41 The GRIT~ August 2024 - Volume 40 No. 8  ACC Activity Log ‘Summary of Approved Projects activity since the last GRIT:  728 Tramway LANE, C replace patio wood  Boa Horned Ow install pato cover 1126 Marigold Or ‘eroot  2156 lack Wiiow Dr re-stueeo  ‘BO Rock Re Or restueeo  234 Tramway Tevrace Gt | Paint garage” access area 5 Cedar HNP “Ra garden shed  TOGA Red OHS Tp Install wood viewing deck 7782 Cedar Canyon Ra replace back gate  457 Blue Belle restueco  12612 Caramel Ct restuece  7596 Quai/Run ip Tandseape  7596 Quai Runt Testuccowall  TH62 Laurel Loop TestUCCO,Te-TOOF  2154 Black Willow Or Teroot aT Calle De Rafaek etoot ‘55 Antelope Ave repair driveway  2434 Tramway Terrace Gt | cut open font entrance  ‘61 Roadrunnerin lean up project  BOF naga Ct Tastall soar panels 652 Cougar Loop restucco  TIE Tramway Teper post and hot hb 1917 Quail Run Or restwece  ‘TIO Eagle RIGGERA Teplace tence  385 ymxLo0p replace front door 2405 TramwayTerrace ct | replace gate  20S Calle De Gabriet ‘ebuild sunroom  7825 Tramway Terraceip | we-stueco  4108 Marigold Br evoot  10d Bluebid Ln ‘window replacement  TaT-T6 Cedar Hit {Landscape  ‘Sandia Heights Youth Spotlight: Aspiring Eagle Scout ‘Claudia Mitchell  SSeseyse  kristin Ackerson and Dave Wilson came from different sides of the continent to Albuquerque: Kristin from Vic- toria, British Columbia and Dave from New York City. They found each other, married, and were looking for a house when they found their current home in Sandia Heights seventeen years ago. Like most Sandia Heights residents they were enthralled by the views from every window of thelr new home and the proximity of W.L. Jackson Park. Kristin said, “We knewas soonas wesaw ‘Sandia Heights that it was the place, with the moun: tains and a lovely park right next door.”  When they had their son David, fifteen years ago, San: dia Heights became even more special. As David grew up, he had a wonderful neighborhood to explore. The park became his personal habitat, and he built a secret bhide-away there. He learned to swimin the then Sandia Heights’ pool. He explored the winding roads and foot: hill trails, first on foot, then on his mountain bike and inline skates.  When David was about eight, he made some friends who were active in Scouting. He and his parents liked ‘what they saw, and David joined Cub Scout Pack 241 at Double Eagle Elementary School as a Bear. David took toiitlike the proverbial duck to water and he advanced through the Scouting ranks as he grew, earning many badges, pins, and awards. He practiced mountain bike ‘maneuvers in his beloved park and eamed his first ‘merit badge in Cycling. He did service projects includ- Ing shoveling snow for his Sandia Heights neighbors.  ‘Although neither parent had been in Scouting, when David entered the Scouts BSA (about age 1), they be an participatingin their son's canoeing, camping trips and fifty:mile treks. Over the years, David advanced through more demanding Scouting ranks ands now a Life Scout. His uniform sash is covered in the many merit badges he has earned. He has completed most of his requirements for Eagle Scout andis planning his Ea Ble project. Both parents have advanced with him and have become Assistant Scout Masters in Troop 220. In addition, Kristin works part time at the Great  12 The GRIT ~ August 2024 - Volume 40 - No. 8  Southwest Council and Dave supports the troop with his graphic arts skills. Kristin credits the unique environ- ment of Sandia Heights for David's success in Scouting. Ithas provided a safe place for him to explore, be phys: Tcally active, develop a love for the outdoors, and an appreciation for the environment. Kristin said ear- nestly, “Growing up in Sandia Heights has made David the Scout he is.  Gisl Scouts sell cookies and Boy Scouts sell popcom. These sales are critical to support the local council, the Scout's troop, and the individual's Scouting career. A percentage of each Scout's sales goes to his personal Scouting fund. These earned funds are strictly used by ‘the individual Scout to pay for Scouting related activi- tes. Davidis always eager to sell that popcom because his sales allow him to fund trips, projects and activities such as the Philmont Scout Ranch and the National Jamboree in West Virginia. He has become very good at it, at one point becoming the number one seller in New Mexico with over $13,000 in sales, and ranked among the top 100 Scouts in the country. He is proud ‘that he supports all his Scouting activities from his earned proceeds.  But Scouting is notjust about camping, selling popcorn and going on fifty-mile treks. Being of service isa prior ity in Scouting. Food bank projects, Thanksgiving din- rer preparation and distribution, and forest fuel reduc- tion (cutting underbrush to reduce wildfire severity) ‘are just a few of the many services that Troop 220 par- ticipates in. As Kristin explained, “A large part of Scout ing is creating a culture of service.” David recited  ‘LtoR: Dave Wilson, David Wilson, Kristin Ackerson  continued on page 5 GREG LOBBEREGT  ‘Your Trusted Sewrce ferReal Estate Tnfermatien  THE REAL ESTATE MARKET IN SANDIA HEIGHTS IS STILL DOING WELL!  rally requesting the aseesiors office  jeans may aually or "FoR SALE x  FOR A FREE REAL ESTATE REVIEW, CALL 505-269- GREG(4734) OR EMAIL GREG@GREGLOBB.COM  18 The GRIT ~ Aug 2024 ~ Volume 40 ~No. 8 |ABQ METRO 5 YEAR ===" succt |HOME APPRECIATION  ae ~ SELLING SANDIA  HEIGHTS  SELEC  ‘CALL PETE FOR YOUR FREE SALES ‘AND MARKETING CONSULTATION.  Are you are thinking of selling your home? Call Sherry Today for your free consultation and put he :  Revises  14 The GRIT— Aug 2024 — Volume 40 ~No, 8 continued from page 12  the Scout Law during this interview: “A Scout Is trust ‘worthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedi cent, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent.” He ‘ended by saying that he wants GRIT readers to know that “Scouts are always there, ready to help out.”  If you are interested in finding a Scouting America Cub ‘Scout Pack or Scouts BSA Troop near Sandia Heights, click here: httpsi/beascout. scouting. org. If you know a Scout you'd like to support by buying popcorn, go to hittps//trals-end.com| and enter that scout’s ID.  Do We Have Nightlife in Sandia Heights? You Bet! ‘Communications & Publications Committee  Seeing deeris nearly a daily occurrence in our neighbor- hood. Sightings of coyotes trotting their beats are com.  ‘mon, Occasionally, we get good views of bears and bob: ‘cats going about their daily business aware and wary of us humans. But when the sun goes down and humans disappear indoors, the critters appear outdoors. Our nightlife is wild! What goes on in your backyard at 3 AM? Some of our residents know very well because they re  view their critter cams at breakfast each morning. We ‘would love to share some of the more dramatic shots of up-close encounters with bears, bobcats, coyotes, and yes, even cougars, and your camera. Oh my!  ‘Send your shots to SHHA@sandiahomeowners.org,  Barbara Boedeker shares a shot of a cougar  18 The GRIT — August 2024 - Volume 40 - No. 8  ‘Show Your Garden Glory ‘Communications & Publications Committee  Calling all green thumbs. Would you lke to share the re: sults of all that digging, weeding, watering, pruning, ‘and loving nurturing? All seasons have their beauty. AS the year turns, we would like to have seasonal shots full summer display, autumnal tones, blanketed in snow, hopeful spring colors.  ‘Send your photos to the SHHA office at shita@san- diahomeowners.org.  Covenant Support Violations a5 of June 31, 2024  Received: 12 ‘Open: 14 Closed: 3 (trash cans, bright lights, short-term rental)  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  12700 San Rafael Ave. NE Ste. 3 Albuquerque, NM 87122  iT]  photo by Al Watkins 