The Sandia Heights Homeowners Association held its 2023 Annual Meeting on February 28, focusing on reporting 2022's progress and announcing plans for 2023: The meeting, hosted at the Church of the Good Shepherd, was the first live gathering in three years. It comprised approval of the agenda and minutes, introductions of guests, 2022 committee chairs, election of two directors, and announcements of the 2023 officials and board. The association's 2023 officials include President Roger Hagengruber, Vice President Hugh Prather, Treasurer Randy Tripp, and Secretary Martin Kirk. Other board members include David Crossley, Elizabeth Edgren, Tracey Goodrich, Robert Hare, Fenton McCarthy, Susan McCasland, Kathleen McCaughey, Claudia Mitchell, Arthur Romero, and Bob Thomas. Angela Moreno, with 30 years experience in real estate, insurance, and wellness, has been appointed the administrator. Various reports were presented, highlighting the financial stability and significant changes within the association. The association introduced several strategies and significant changes, including a Year Round Board and Committee recruitment, a Consent Agenda for efficient management in meetings, and replacement of the retired legal counsel with Scott Turner. The officers and committee heads actively maintained the organization's functioning, with projects such as management of the annual budget and a projected income of $393,160.31 for 2023. Community Services, led by Elizabeth Edgren, worked towards strengthening community relationships, with a substantial increase in membership households. Covenant Support Committee (CSC) handled property use restrictions and complaints. In 2022, they resolved 38 complaints, although Airbnb like renting and invasive elm tree issues persist. The association hosted "Cork & Fork," a bi monthly social event focused on dining, which welcomed all adults from Sandia Heights. For more details, residents are advised to contact Rene Kessel. The association is situated at 12700 San Rafael Ave. NE Ste. 3, Albuquerque, NM 87122.