The executive team of the SHHA includes President Roger Hagengruber, Vice President Hugh Prather, Secretary Martin Kirk, and Treasurer Randy Tripp. Board members David Crossley, Elizabeth Edgren, Fenton McCarthy, Susan McCasland, Kathleen McCaughey, Claudia Mitchell, Arthur Romero, and Bob Thomas lead different committees. After 15 years of service, Lead Administrator Betsy Rodriguez has resigned, and the association is seeking a replacement. The SHHA has several initiatives underway: Highlighting fire safety: Susan McCasland warns of early onset of brush fires around the foothills. Challenging development in Elena Gallegos Open Space: The "Save the Elena Gallegos" (STEG) nonprofit is petitioning against city plans for development, with support actions that include committing to yard signs, signing and sharing a petition, and joining the STEG Google Group. Advocating for community standards and security: The Covenant Support Committee cautions against short term room rentals and issues guidance on cleanliness, trash disposal, and car parking. Fostering neighborhood wildlife: The text includes an update on the Raptor Nesting Project and requests for residents to adopt natural pest control methods. Overseeing architectural changes: The Architectural Control Committee is coordinating upgrades on various residences within Sandia Heights. Offering members benefits: Members have access to project details, a color reference guide for projects, and discounts from participating merchants, as well as an annual photography competition. Encouraging mail security measures: It recommends installation of locking mailboxes and use of post office boxes as anti theft precautions. Showcasing unique geological features: Highlighting the Pennsylvanian age Sandia Formation, informing hikes along the South Crest Trail. Generating community engagement: Hosting events like 'Cork & Fork' dinners and the Sandia Heights Art Tour. The SHHA emphasizes the enhancement of neighborhood harmony, fire safety, natural environmental care, community standards, local wildlife, architectural projects, mail safety, and engaging community events, offering discounts for members and celebrating local geography. The SHHA office is located at 12700 San Rafael Avenue NE, Ste. 3 in Albuquerque, open on weekdays, and provides emergency contact numbers for services including the County Sheriff and Fire Department, Water/Sewer emergencies, and power outages. All of these efforts work towards maintaining a safe, clean, and harmonious community in Sandia Heights.