C&P…..2 &3       CSC ….7  ACC .…. 8  Officers & Board  Members  President –   Joe Pappe  Vice President –  Bob Bower  Secretary –   George Connor  Treasurer –   Woody Farber  Carnie Abajian  Don Aunapu  Anne Manning  Kyran Mish  Cindy Mottle  Dave Mottle  Michael Pierce  Hugh Prather  Emily Rudin  Marion Simon  Bob Thomas  Dick Wavrik  Bill Wiley  Office Staff  Amanda Allen-  Administrator   Betsy Rodriguez – Administrative  Assistant  SHHA Office   2-B San Rafael Avenue  Albuquerque, NM 87122  Office Hours: M-F,   9am-4pm  Phone: 505-797-7793  Fax: 505-856-8544  Web site:  www.sandiahomeowners.org  Email:  shha@sandiahomeowners.org  For the GRIT Editorial  Policy please visit our  website:  sandiahomeowners.org.   The policy can be found in  the SHHA Rules and  Regulations for the  Association under the  Board tab.    February  2017    Vol. 33 – No. 2  Officer Elections:  The following is the slate of officers who were elected for the 2017-2018 operational  year at the December Board Meeting:  Joe Pappe, President  Emily Rudin, Vice President  Bob Bower, Secretary  Woody Farber, Treasurer  There are no changes to the Bylaws or Director Candidates to be voted on at the 2017  Annual Meeting.  Annual Meeting Conduct Procedures:  1. Please silence all cell phones during the meeting. 2. Questions to the Officers or about committee reports will be addressed at the end of each presentation.  3. Before speaking, please present yourself at a microphone to be recognized by the Presiding Officer and state your name.  Town Hall Conduct Procedures:  1. Please silence all cell phones during the meeting. 2. Please fill out the Member Question/Comment Form with a summary of your questions or comments and present them to the Presiding Officer.  3. Before speaking, please present yourself at a microphone to be recognized by the Presiding Officer and state your name.  4. Each speaker is limited to three minutes. 5. No member may speak twice until all who wish to speak have had the opportunity to do so.  SHHA Annual Meeting  Church of the Good Shepherd on Tennyson,  9 – 11 AM, FEBRUARY 4, 2017  Doors open at 8:30 a.m. Refreshments available.  Business to be conducted includes:   Introduction of new officers elected by the Board  Presentations by the SHHA committee chairs and officers  Town Hall Meeting following the Annual Meeting for members to express their concerns  Door prizes – tickets will be given to members who sign in before 9 am. Must be present to win door prizes. The SHHA Board needs to know the concerns of the community.  Please plan to attend.   2   The GRIT –February 2017 – Volume 33 – No. 2      History of Conversation Hearts    NECCO must produce about 100,000 pounds of the  candy hearts every day in order to meet the Valentine  demand, when about 8 billion hearts are sold in six  weeks. Conversation hearts were invented in the  1860s by the brother of NECCO's founder. These first  hearts had printed paper notes tucked inside.  The story of conversation hearts began in 1847, when  a Boston pharmacist named Oliver Chase longed for a  way to get in on the apothecary lozenge business.  Lozenges were quickly becoming popular as the  medicine conveyance of choice, and were also popular  remedies for sore throats and bad breath. But making  lozenges was complicated and time-consuming—the  process involved a mortar and pestle, kneading dough,  rolling it out, and cutting it into discs that would  eventually become lozenges.  There had to be a better way, and Oliver came up with  it. Inspired by the new wave of gadgets and tools that  hit America as it industrialized, he invented a machine  that rolled lozenge dough and pressed wafers into  perfect discs. Oliver had inadvertently created  America’s first candy-making machine, and before  long, he had abandoned his pharmacy business to  crank out miles of what would become New England  Confectionery Company (NECCO) wafers.  Legend has it that Oliver’s NECCO wafers were  carried by Civil War soldiers, and some speculate that  the tradition of sending loving greetings to the troops  morphed into the conversation heart, but those claims  are hard to verify. What is clear is that as Oliver built  his candy empire, his brother Daniel decided he  wanted a piece of the action.   Daniel wondered if it would be possible to print  sentimental messages on candy. In 1866, he figured  out a way to print words on candy with vegetable dye  during the cutting process.  People loved conversation candies (they weren’t  available in heart shapes until 1902) and their  witty messages, which could stoke the flames of love  or warn off flaky suitors.   Movie Reviews   by “The SHHA Couch Potato”  We are lucky to live in an age when Werner Herzog is  making documentaries.  Herzog composes his films  using the narrative experiences of individuals who turn  out to be much like ourselves, and this “everyman”  cinematic device renders Herzog’s documentaries  infinitely more accessible, and infinitely more  enjoyable, than is typical of the genre.  “Lo and Behold: Reveries of the Connected World”  is Herzog’s latest, and it is populated with a  bewildering variety of humans whose collective  impressions paint a picture of the technologies on  which our modern world depends.  The film’s  structure is divided into chapters with titles like  “Chapter I: The Early Days”, with UCLA Internet  pioneer Leonard Kleinrock reminiscing of how the  first ARPANET message crashed the destination  computer in Palo Alto.  That failed login only  managed to send the first two characters “lo”, but this  abbreviated message served as the genesis of the  modern Internet.  Other chapters document a less-sanguine view of our  interconnected world.  Chapter III tells the story of  Nikki Catsouras, whose family shares their torment at  the hands of Internet trolls who posted images of  Nikki’s body mangled by a fatal car crash.  These  images went viral before the family knew of Nikki’s  death, and this chapter of the film is aptly titled “The  Dark Side”.  As in all Herzog documentaries, the  viewer is invited to experience an emotional roller- coaster ride, and Chapter III supplies its painful nadir.  Herzog’s cast of characters includes dreamers like  Elon Musk, who thoughtfully articulates his vision of  interplanetary travel providing a lifeboat for humanity,  and astronomer Lucianne Walkowicz, who deftly  deflates Musk’s vision.  The sum total of these stories  is a sprawling documentary scope that proves equal to  the broad reach of information technology in our  interconnected age.  This film is a must-watch for fans  of great documentaries.  3   The GRIT – February 2017 – Volume 33 – No. 2     Living with Bobcats in Sandia Heights  When we moved to Sandia Heights in 1994, we realized that we had many new neighbors of the four legged  variety and we met jackrabbits and coyotes on our walks.  We also wanted to attract birds and bought a large  pole that has attached hooks for seed feeders and a large flat water dish.  We filled the bird feeders and the  water dish and waited to see what would happen.  Since we live on a wide arroyo we discovered that many  other animals used this path to the forest boundary and got some bird books to identify the different summer  and winter bird varieties.  The local quail, cotton tops and scaled quail, were prolific at first, but then the  gamble quail moved in and took over.  Both varieties seemed to get along and came regularly to feed on the  ground below the feeders and enjoyed the water dishes.  It didn’t take long before we also attracted bobcats  and learned that their favorite food are quail.  One day, we observed an adult bobcat finishing a meal of quail surrounded by feathers.  After the cat left,  there was little evidence of the meal.  Over the years we saw the bobcats coming up the arroyo and visiting  our patio regularly.  Usually, it was a female with two, sometimes three kittens.  Since we have a low wall or  banco surrounding our patio, the kittens came to sit there and look in the kitchen windows wondering who  we were.  The mother with soft sounds would encourage them to move on, but they didn’t always follow.  They also liked the water dish and always drank from it.  The kittens were so adorable and we saw them  growing up, since they usually stay with the mother for a year, sometimes two.  One day, our housecat was on the patio when one of the adult bobcats came visiting.  We happened to look  out the kitchen window to see the encounter between a housecat and a wild bobcat three times its size.  Our  cat had every hair standing up to make himself appear larger.  He had no chance of escape since the bobcat  had its back against the door, while he was backed up against the banco wall.  My husband decided it was  high time to open the door and the bobcat was startled and jumped over the banco wall, while our cat shot  like a bullet through the open door into the house.  He decided to stay indoors after that experience for a  couple of days.  He led a charmed life although he sometimes spent nights outdoors in his younger days.  He  was 17 when he died of kidney failure and did not become another “lost cat” in Sandia Heights who are  victims of coyotes and bobcats.  We love our wildlife and co-exist with them. One spring a bobcat was lying in front of our patio gate  stretched out and sunning himself and watching traffic going by in front of the house.  Many times they have  observed us before we realized they were there.  Sometimes, we see one by the side of the road just watching  who is coming along.  They won’t run like rabbits, but remain motionless and usually escape detection.   They change their coat from summer to winter and their camouflage is adapted to the changing vegetation.  They are very unique animals and help control the rodent population.  We very much appreciate this balance  and variety of our wildlife in this neighborhood.  4   The GRIT – February 2017 – Volume 32 – No. 2 STATS FROM SANDIA HEIGHTS SECURITY PATROL  If you have questions regarding the following stats, please call Sandia Heights Security 856-6347,   Mobile, 263-4654.   Last Month   # of  calls  Last Month   # of  calls  Last Month   # of  calls  Alarms  28 Motorist assist  2 Sheriff Office assist  2  Animal control asst.  2 Motorcycle nuisance  0 Special request  207  Breaking & entering  1 Neighbor dispute  1 Special (extra patrol)  10 Car accident  2 Newspaper pickup  14 Suspicious person  14 Customer assist  3 Noise complaints  3 Suspicious vehicle  20 Dump/spilled material  1 Open door/window  17 Theft  13 Fireworks complaint  2 Parking problem  1 Utility Co. assist  1 Home burglary  2 Pet nuisance  0 Threat/personal  1 Lost/found item or pet  4 Rescue assist  2 Vandalism  1 Fireworks  2 Salesman complaint  0 Vehicle burglary  2 Miscellaneous call  6 Speeding vehicle  5 Wildlife report  0 Total Calls  369 SANDIA HEIGHTS SERVICES (SHS) 10 Tramway Loop:    Please be reminded that Sandia Heights Services (they provide water, sewer, trash and recycle  collection, and security services) is a subscription service separate from Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association membership.    Also, Membership in SHHA does not include Sandia Heights Security membership. You can call  Security to confirm your membership with them. If you have questions regarding the following stats,  please call Security 856-6347, mobile 263-4654.    MAIL THEFT    Sandia Heights Security says that mail theft is still a problem. Residents are  advised not leave mail in mailboxes, either incoming or outgoing. If you cannot  retrieve your mail promptly ask a trusted neighbor to get it for you. If you are  leaving town suspend your mail delivery - have it held at the Post Office.  If you have mail that would be considered sensitive, you may want to mail it at a USPS office.  Another suggestion might be to replace your mailbox with either a heavy duty locking type or  totally enclosing the box with acceptable construction and a lock to impede vandals as well as  thieves.  Please be alert to anyone in a vehicle checking mailboxes. A license number on a vehicle along  with a vehicle description would go a long way to putting an end to this activity.   If you experience mail theft, notify the BernCo. Sheriff’s Office (BCSO) (798-7000), the USPS  inspector (1-877-876-2455), and Sandia Heights Security (856-6347 and 263-4654). If you  witness a crime in progress notify BCSO and Security.  Judson McCollum Executive Broker 10 Million Dollar Producer Call or Text: (505) 269-3717 JudsonABQ@aol.com Sharon McCollum Executive Broker 15 Million Dollar Producer Call or Text: (505) 269-6217 SMMinABQ@aol.com Selling Sandia Heights Homes! In Association with RE/MAX  • World’s Largest Real Estate Company Network  •  RE/MAX Elite  •  8300 Carmel Avenue  NE, Ste 201 Albuquerque, NM 87122    (505) 798-1000 EXT. 1024  BEST NUMBER (505) 269-6217  Sharon and Judson McCollum have promoted Sandia Heights property values for over 25 years. We market  to support  improving home values in Sandia Heights. Call or Text (505) 269-6217 for your FREE Market Analysis today! Sandia Heights Homes Are Selling For Sale & Sold in Sandia Heights! SOLD! 1518 Eagle Ridge Terr NE $599,900 • MLS# 843495 One-of-a-Kind, Spacious Two Story  Quality Custom on 1+/- Acre View  Lot! Serene pond setting, 5 BR, Separate  MBR, FLR, FDR, FR/entertainment  area, Gourmet kitchen, view patios,  4 door/4 car  carriage house garage,  service room with desk. Walk in Pantry.  Custom cherry cabinetry. Genuine  hardwood  flooring.  Three  custom  fireplaces. Privacy, views, space! Oﬀered by Sharon McCollum 1484 Morning Glory Rd NE $479,900 • MLS# 847878 12709 Colony Place NE $329,900 • MLS# 866358 SOLD! Southwest Contemporary Custom,  Partial Adobe, on a City & Mountain  View Lot. Courtyard entry. 4 BR or  3+study/office; master with FP &  private view deck, 3 baths, spacious  greatroom, dining  room,  family  room, gourmet country kitchen,  butler’s pantry, den, gazebo & an  oversized 3 car garage. Panoramic  vistas surround!  Oﬀered by Sharon McCollum Number 1 in service and sales National plus local website exposure selling Sandia Heights homes!  Superior relocation service nationwide 25 years of superior service in Albuquerque real estate Sharon and Judson do things right for YOU! Call or Text today for your FREE Market Analysis! February 2017 LIST PRICE  STREET   FOR SALE! Custom contemporary retreat by  Roger Smith, in the heart of Sandia  Heights, situated on a quiet, serene,  panoramic Sandia Mountain & city  prime view lot. Courtyard entry, 3BR  or 2+study/office, Eat-in Country  Kitchen,  Expansive  greatroom,  custom fireplace, Spacious MBR  Retreat. Breathtaking city & sunset  views! Oﬀered by Sharon McCollum 981 Antelope NE $399,900 • MLS# 877627 PENDING! Unique, Custom, SW Style Casa on  private view lot. Breathtaking Sandia  Mountain Vistas! Sunken greatroom  w/custom Kiva style fireplace & curved  Adobe walls, spacious kitchen w/raised T  & G ceiling, 3 large bedrooms; Private  MBR w/ custom Kiva style fireplace &  curved Adobe walls, 2 baths, 2 car garage.  Curved driveway, covered patio w/T & G  ceiling & privacy wall w/Banco.  Oﬀered by Sharon McCollum $ PER SF  Antelope Big Horn Honeysuckle Dr Roadrunner Ln Rockrose Rd Tramway Ln Tramway Ln Brushwood St Tramway Terrace Ct Tramway Terrace Ct  SQ FT 2,526 5,400 7,891 2,759 3,353 2,366 2,702 1,970 1,709 1,504 $399,900 $669,900 $1,200,000 $490,000 $599,000 $375,000 $500,000 $375,000 $264,900 $235,000 $158.31 $124,06 $152.07 $177.60 $178.65 $158.50 $185.05 $190.36 $155.00 $156.25 AlbuquerqueHomes.net  SandiaHeights.com  SharonAndJudson.com FREE  MARKET ANALYSIS  & CONSULTATION Text or Call Sharon & Judson TODAY! 269-6217  269-3717 ALBUQUERQUE’S HOME SELLERS Selling Your Home? The Following Homes Are Pending in Sandia Heights 5 The GRIT - February 2017 3,353 SQFT  -  4 BR  -  3 BA  -  3 CG  -  .84 AC LOT  From the custom wood entry door to the herringbone wood ceilings w/ vigas, this home has it all! The living room offers a rounded wall of  windows that let in plenty of natural light as well as show off the  stunning mountain views. The kitchen offers 20” porcelain tile, granite  counters, a Viking range, & custom cabinets. The Master suite offers an  attached nursery or workout area complete with carpet, recessed  lighting, and a spa like master bath w/Jacuzzi tub, dual sinks, &  stunning mountain views! Over sized 3 car garage, 2 Newer AC combo  units, & a private backyard with over $30k in landscaping updates.  1222 ROCKROSE RD. NE 3,152 SQFT  -  4 BR  -  4 BA  -  3 CG  -  .60 AC LOT   Enter the home via the private courtyard with large fountain. Upon  entry of the home you are immediately greeted by the luxurious Living  Room, complete with gleaming hardwood floors. The large light/bright  kitchen is located just off the Family Room, making entertaining a  breeze. Features include a gas cook top with hood, large bar top, a  butcher block center island, and a bright breakfast nook. The Master  Suite offers lush carpeting, a separate sitting area with built in shelving,  private access to the backyard. The backyard offers stunning views,  fireplace and and a built-in BBQ. Offered At: $550,000 176 BIG HORN RIDGE DR. NE 538 BLACK BEAR RD. NE 2,805 SQFT  -  3 BR  -  2 BA  -  3 CG  -  .64 AC LOT  Absolutely stunning single level Sandia Heights custom Nick Garcia  adobe home. The kitchen has been very tastefully updated with Hanks  House cabinets, granite and corian counters, a subzero fridge, built-in  wine rack, and an adjacent morning room complete with a Kiva  fireplace. Featuring brick floors throughout, as well as tons of storage.  Huge flex space that would make a great office/study, exercise room, or  even a home theater. Extremely private backyard w/ a sparkling in- ground pool as well as several patios for entertaining. The 3 car garage  offers a work bench, & an adjacent potting room for the gardener in the  family. Three fireplaces and newer stucco. Offered At: $575,000 UP TO FOUR	  FREE	  TRAM	  PASSES are	  available	  from	  me	  every	  day.	   Call	  early	  to	  reserve	  your	  passes,	  they	  are	   available	  on	  a	  first	  come,	  first	  served	  basis.	   Email or Call	  Greg	   Today! Greg@GregLobb.com  or  505.269.GREG (4734) . 505-292-8900  1053 RED OAKS LP. NE SOLD! COMING    SOON 4,914 SQFT  - 5 BR  -  3 BA  -  3 CG  -  .75 AC LOT  This stunning custom Parkwest Sandia Heights home offers 5  bedrooms, 3 bathrooms, 2 Living Areas + a Rec Room & Den, a  Study, and a Loft off the Master Suite! The Kitchen is a Chef's  dream! Featuring granite counters, beam celling, a large center  island with a gas cook top, and tons of cabinet space for storage.  Upstairs you will find the spacious Master Suite with a huge walk-in  closet, a private covered balcony with stunning views of the Sandia  Mountains & City Lights, as well as a spa like Master Bath. The  spacious Family Room offers a Kiva fireplace, and opens to the  Kitchen which is ideal for entertaining. The private backyard offers  both covered and open patio space as well as unobstructed views of  the Sandias.  To Be Offered At: $850,000 6 The GRIT - February 2017 7   The GRIT – February 2017 – Volume 33 – No. 2 Covenants and Emerging Technologies  By Bob Thomas, Covenant Support Committee  (CSC)  When the Tram Company developed Sandia Heights the  area was divided into Units. Each Unit had restrictive  covenants (Architectural and Use). There are now over  38 of these Units and their related covenants.  Many of  the Use Covenants were written and put into effect in the  1970's.  Since then we have seen the emergence of roof- top satellite dishes, roof-top solar panels, photovoltaic  window panels, and now outdoor security cameras and  closed circuit television (CCTV).  What's next?  Drones?  So, in these instances, the SHHA Covenant Support   Committee has had to deal with the impact of these  emerging technologies on the Sandia Heights residents,  specifically how to address them, if necessary, with  sometimes outdated and often non-existent covenants.   Remember, the goal of the Association is to represent  the interests of the residents and to help protect the  values of their properties.  In general, the Association  exists in order to preserve the quality of life for which  the development was established.  We are receiving an increase in lighting complaints.   Oftentimes this is the result of residents unknowingly  lighting up their nearby neighborhoods, or new residents  unaware of the covenant restrictions and Bernalillo  County Ordinances for light pollution.  And we suspect  that security concerns from the residents are now a major  contributor for leaving lights on all night.  The issue at  hand is that there have been many advances in lighting  over the years, both bulbs and fixtures, and so how does  the SHHA enforce the resident's concerns over light  shining into their living rooms with 1970's language?   While it is the responsibility of the CSC to address this  issue, we cannot rewrite your Covenants.  For example, as reported in the January 2017 issue of the  GRIT:  When the covenants were initially written in the  70's, there weren't any high intensity LEDs or Quartz  lights; however, the CSC will consider these newer  technologies as "flood lights" in our enforcement of  lighting complaints.  We try to use the terminology  found in the Bernalillo County Ordinance to guide us on  the meaning of shielded lights and light cutoffs. But how  do we quantify light that shines into (or on) the homes of  other residents?  Many times the light that is being  complained about is not from a directed source but is a  reflection off the house walls.   Should we measure light  intensity at the property boundary?  Note that there are  criteria for such a measurement in the Bernalillo County  lighting ordinance.  At the last meeting of the Covenant Support Committee  we voted and agreed to research what constitutes light  pollution.  We are developing a photo gallery of outdoor  lighting in the community to better quantify light  patterns to aid us in making a determination if there is a  violation. Our end-goal is a modern day, quantitative  definition of light intrusion consistent with the wording  in your Covenants, in order for the SHHA to better  enforce the covenants, both with regard to a  technologically defensible enforcement, and a consistent  application across all outdoor lighting types- in fairness  to the residents.    In the meantime remember that:  1. Outdoor lighting fixtures should point down, and must be shielded  2. Lights for driveways and walkways have very restrictive conditions. (BERNCO)  3. Outdoor lights cannot at any time cause light to shine directly into (or on) the homes of other residents.  (Covenants)    If you have expertise in light measurement the CSC  would appreciate your input.  Please contact the SHHA  office and we will contact you.    Covenant Support Committee (CSC)  Needs Volunteers  The CSC is looking for new members.  If you are a  member of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  (SHHA) and a homeowner please consider volunteering  for your Covenant Support Committee and help ensure  the enforcement of SHHA covenants. We meet at the  SHHA office once a month and we have the excellent  back up of our SHHA staff.     Covenant enforcement contributes significantly to  maintaining our property values and to preserving our  unique community. If you would enjoy meeting with  interesting, concerned, and fun neighbors who share  your appreciation of Sandia Heights please consider  joining the CSC.  You can volunteer by calling the SHHA office at   505-797-7793.  THE FOLLOWING IS A SUMMARY OF  ACTIVE CSC VIOLATIONS:  Unit No.  Type of Suspected  Violation S11  Lighting Issue  S7  Yard Maintenance  SHHA Court Action  S5, S6  No Prior ACC Approval    3 Files Closed Since the Last GRIT  8   The GRIT – February 2017 – Volume 33 – No. 2 ACC Activity Log   Summary of Approved Projects activity since  the last GRIT:   26 Cedar Hill Place - Restucco  40 Rock Ridge – Roof Repair  94 Juniper Hill Road - Reroof  782-B Tramway Place – Trash Bin Enclosure  998 Lynx Loop – Window and Door  Replacement  1148 Marigold Drive – Reroof, Restucco,  Window Replacement, and Re-paint Trim  1550 Eagle Ridge Lane - Reroof  9508 Ridge Vista Drive – Door Replacement  Visit the website: www.sandiahomeowners.org    to read about all projects currently under ACC  management.  SHHA MEMBER BENEFITS:  Check out the entire SHHA Member Benefits  Program at www.sandiahomeowners.org . The  SHHA Merchant Benefits Program includes the  following current participating merchants:   ABQ Dream Homes by Veronica Gonzales/  Keller Williams Realty   Albuquerque Natural Health Center-   About Face Medical Spa  Alarm Research Inc.   Albuquerque Custom Tint and Glass   Avis/Budget Car and Truck Rental   Balanced Physical Therapy & Wellness   Bair Medical Spa   Blue Lotus Spa Service   Brown & Brown Insurance of NM    Domino’s Pizza   Jade Enterprises   Lovely Nails and Day Spa  PCM Electrical  Chiropractor, Mark L Schwartz DC  Roofing USA   Visionary Body Works  Each merchant participating in the Member  Benefits Program offers a discount to SHHA  members. To identify what discounts each  merchant offers visit the SHHA website at:  sandiahomeowners.org and under the Notices  and Information Tab you will find SHHA  Members Benefits.    The Arroyos    After recently seeing a few people wandering  around the arroyo behind our home with their  dogs, (one who actually allowed her unleashed  dog to go toward deer who fled into the road in  fear....) and some walkers out there with  children this fall, it seemed like a good time to  advise our new neighbors, and remind everyone  again that the arroyos are not “Open Space” for  public use.  While they may appear to be a  good place to walk, no public easement exists  to access them from the privately-owned  property surrounding them, and any entrance  onto private property without the express  permission of the homeowner is prohibited at  all times.  Although the snakes may be out of  sight during the colder weather, our arroyos  serve as defacto wildlife conservation areas  with abundant deer, rabbits, coyotes, bobcats  and more who regularly frequent these arroyos,  and clearly are accustomed to these being a  safe haven.  As housing development seems to  continue around us, these arroyos down from  mountains indeed may be the last place of  sanctuary where these precious animals can  roam free.  Also noteworthy, throughout the  year, the arroyos are filled with cactus and  plants that, unseen, could injure a person or  pet.  Given the number of approved and rarely  busy hiking trails right here around us, walkers  should have no trouble avoiding the arroyos  and private property, and find these public  trails great alternatives.  9 The GRIT - February 2017 10 The GRIT - February 2017 11   The GRIT – February 2017 – Volume 33 – No. 2  Happy Valentine’s Day  Notice: Any corrections to anything found in the printed version of the GRIT can be found on the website.  Community Event Bulletin Board  Not all of these groups are sponsored by SHHA. Information is provided to keep residents informed  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  Sandia Heights “Cork & Fork” Dining Activity: We are in our eleventh year of the Sandia Heights  “Cork & Fork” dinner group. We meet bimonthly in small groups in the homes of our members. Each small  group is usually three couples plus a host couple, with each couple contributing to some part of the dinner  menu.  All couples and singles are welcome.  The emphasis is on food and fun rather than formal elegance.  We’re always happy to have new folks join us, so if this sounds like an activity that you might be interested  in, please contact Linda Mason at lindamason307@gmail.com or 505-554-2934.  Sandia Heights Artists: The dates are set, come join us! The 14th annual Sandia Heights Artists Studio  Tour will be held Saturday and Sunday, September 9 and 10, 2017. If you are an artist living in Sandia  Heights who would like to participate in our wildly successful studio tour please call Nancy Mattern 856- 6313 or Marta Burckley 798-1765 for time and location of the next Sandia Heights Artists meeting. We’d  love to welcome you to our studio tour. Check out our website at www.sandiaheightsartists.com  Do you have a child who loves to sing?    The New Mexico Symphonic Youth Chorus is holding auditions each month for young singers in  Grades 4 through 12.  Music Directors, Marilyn Thomas Bernard and Louise Loomis, are experienced  music educators, who have been providing professional instruction and choral performance opportunities in  Albuquerque for over 20 years.  NMSYC is a 501(c)(3) non-profit division of the NM Symphonic Chorus.   For general information, go to www.nmsyouthchorus.org. To schedule an audition, please call   (505) 263-1445.  Announcements & Notices:   Office hours: Monday – Friday 9am – 4pm.  Office closed for Presidents’ Day, Monday February 20, 2017.  Board Meeting – The Annual Meeting is held in lieu of February Board Meeting.  Notary, copies and faxes, email alerts and contractor evaluation binder free to members.  Committee meeting dates are posted on our website calendar: www.sandiahomeowners.org.  Classified ads can be found on the website on the top bar menu under Classifieds.  Safety vests for sale in the SHHA office. $2 per vest for members. Cash or check.  Tram Passes: for sale in the SHHA office. $6 per ticket for members (as of January 1, 2017). Cash or check only.  SHHA membership cards: remember to go to the website to get a full listing of the companies that offer a discount! 