THE GRIT Ex TOR A may 1996  ~ Your calendars are marked: remember these dates! Hondev, 24 Mey 10:30 a.m, = 12 noon TINY TRIATHALON ~ swim 4 laps, bike 1 or 2 laps, run 4 laps of the park. LUNCH at pool 12 noon — 1:30 p.m, sponsoret by Four Seasons and SHHA: fried chicken, potato salad, beans, pop or beer. SLASH: pool ganes fram 2:00 t112 5 including ereased wateraelon. penny Pitch, beer and soda toss. Jannis clinic 3100 till 5100. Come and spend the Gay with your neighbors and friends, Remember thet the whole Memorial Day weekend 18 Open House at the Four Seasons Club.  is the annual general mecting of the Homeowners Association  Patricia Cassidy, our County Commissioner will be there, Tw representative of the Gas Coapany will be available following the business mecting far an information and question end answer session. One order of business will be the election cf six menhers of the Eoard of Directors. If you are interested in becoming a director, tell any current member of the board. Helo wantes! We need & aerber of the neignderhood associaticn to take over the directory. That person should have a word processor but dass not need to be a “director.” Harry Criel, the current directory editor is ready to pass on the job and isis to the net capable person. The Job requires sone tine each month to keep the tile updated. Call Harry or Rab if this interests you. Dues. The dues for all members will sppear on the billing starting in July. fay members who paid thirty dollars annua dues will begin paving 42.50 per month as the new fiscal year starts, Those paving monthly dues since January will not be affected.  Those of you who have not returned your survey regarding natural gas, please co so ov bring it to one of the gatherings, We need that imut to Start. If you live in Sandia Heights ce Sandia Heights Nerth, please respond slso. Just bezause the Gas Co. save they aren’t going north of Tramway Roady we don?t have to believe them! This survey Nelps detersine both interest and Commi tment.  Tt naw come to aur attention that there are menbers of our cemmunity who do not pay to have their garbage collected, but put it with their neighbor's. C'mon folks ~ that’s a cheap uhot: where is your respect for yaur community, your neighters and your self?  There will be a Qbamunity Clean-up Day en Sunday, 27 June. The gerbace guys will coltect any trash, weeds, etc. that is contained by string, doves, sacks, or the like, More information in the June GRIT.  On ay favorite subject---—-please remember to drive slowly and carefully in the neighborhead. School will be out shertly ~ watch out for our children.  Rab Freeman, 295-2977  Clerk Speaiman ang all menbera of ECFD District 5 Volunteer Fire t have raguasted me, via the good offices cf the SHHA te thant those residents of Sandia Heights, Tierre Monte and North Albuquerque Scres who #0 generously responded to cur recent fund appeal.  We mailed ang/or hand delivered sone 1053 letters. To date the replies number less than 700, including an anonymous “well-wisher™ who gave nothing but advice, ‘and bad’ advice at that, namely that our entire support should come from SHHA. Such 2 low return ‘rate is, to sav the Lasst, somewhat disappointing. Flease, 1 you have overlooked our letter, dig it aut snd let us hear from you right anay.” We need vour support. never too early t2 issue warnings concerning the use oF Fireworks,  suhich in this ares reaches its peak during the July  pine majer fires. all  ef OF sihega! Firensy Je attence with 2 fine of $1800 ang’or a pr: QU Eke DEPAR THEN” 1g 4 VOLUNTEES COwaNTT. EEEORT = We CAPE  Mary ann T-egeal Court 164 Juniper Hili Road (ghbornoed ca¥fees will continue through the summer. What an chance to visit and mest with newcomers ang neighbors, Thanks to Mary AAn Syroid, April Hostess and Anne Mckinney, May Hostess. Call your hostess 1¢ you'd like to attend so that whe can plan accordingly.  i Our nephew and his wife would like to trade housesitting for a place to stay, spprov. uly 9 t2 Suqust 8. References, Please call Don or Julie  mcariaa, 2esnaza7,  Op JOR SPEC TALieTS Tumbleweed removal and burning, house sitting, plant watering, baby sitting, animal sitting, tree ang plant spraying, will help with moving eng paching. etc. Call for estimates on any odd job1 294-7502 or 294-7653. Ask for Kyle or Lowell Williams.  ATTENTION ALL SANDIA HEIGHTS STH GRADERS (CLASS OF 1920!) There will be an ice skating party at the Outpost Arena on Wednesday, June ath from 7 ta 10. p. Admission is $5.00 and will include tne siating session, skate rental, 1 For information call Mary Burt at 294”  a 