LY SN “——~ THE GRIT  LS volume 1. No. 6  SandiaMleights Homeowners om  ssociation  PRESIDENT"S REMARKS  Happy New Year to all. Your Homeowners Association opens 1986 ith new plans and projects. Other articles in THE GRIT present survey results and the new dues collection plan, SHHA plans to serve you even better and more efficiently.  Of interest to us all are the following:  1) The Circle K. was repainted an imperceptably shade darker. When the building needs to be repainted within the next two years, the Circle K Gompany assures us the color will become “buckskin.” The Lights will become downward projecting. We're working on that sign.  2) Tramuay Blvd. will be getting reflectors in the spring after the  snow season. We continue to keep attention on Trammay Blvd., but have no  3) The rustic, one-sided neighborhood street signs are being replaced with the reflective green and white two-sided kind at the rate with which the county supplies then.  4) With” increased traffic on our neighborhood roads it behoov of us to drive more carefully, ki driving slowly. Our roads are great for hot-reddingy but our kids, neighbors, pets, and vehicles are sore important.  5) “once again we sponscred a House Decoration Contest. Kelly Voria Jana Sara and Tony Warford were first and second in the luminaria division. Abby and Errol LeCesne won the “other” category. Thanks to all who entered and) to our judgh There has been gone discussion about having only a luminaria division. ‘There have also been suggestions that all ~ or aost ~ of Sandia Heights light up with lumnariae — for our own pleasure ~ not tour buses! Any comments or reactions?  ) Covenant monitoring continues. We all received letters regarding solar collectors and panels needing to follow guidelines and ta adhere to restrictions. The solar companies received the sase letters. Again a Feninder that following the covenants is in the best interests of each oF us.  7) The Gas Company came to a recent board meeting. Their Presentation was both poorly prepared and Given. They did not have cost Comparisons. “They did get 8 to 10 names of homeowners to use to do sone comparison studies. | We assume the data will be available shortl Information gleaned concluded that the more customers they could sign up, tne less expensive the laying the gas line within the neighborhood would b  8) Outpost Arena, our neighborhood ice rink, will be open shortly with public skating, ice hockey and hockey tournaments, aerobics, weight lifting, and a “fancy” snack bar. Menberships and per time admissions will be available; babysitting services and instruction will be offered. f flyer will Be mailed to all resident  9) “the status of the cable TY recently bought by « Colorado company.  10)” The Board of Directors welcomes Sara Warford to fill the vacancy left by the resignation af Kathieen Leseck, Sara’s area of concentration will be "hospitality." I€ will be. she who coordinates the neighbornood Coffees and other activities, Welcome, Sara!  The board sets the second Wednesday of the month at 7:30 pm at the Fire Station. You are walcome to attend.  an ping to the right side of the road and  is unknown. Albuquerque CTV was  Rap Fr  ynan, Presigent SHHA, 296-2977  HOMEOWNER SURVEY RESULTS  The homeowners survey had excellent response. We had 3 tines the anticipated rate. of return based on average survey return rates. So congratulations to Sandia Heights residents and thank you! The Board of Directors feels it now has @ good basis for making decisions on Your behalf in 1996.  For the more’ than 100 residents who volunteered to assist in neighborhood projects and events, thank you, Me welcome you end your ta We will meet you all at one of two get-togethers in January. See the article in this issue,Neighbors Gather, for times and places.  Bic Minner——The most interest was shown in the Jogging and puking Upatn along, Tramay’ Elva. "hy overahelming masoring (of fespondente asked the Beard of Directors’ to pursue thin activity first, We look forward to working with the 36 residents who Volunteered to assist. You will be called after the first of 1986.  Natural gas to the neighborhood was the second most favored activity to pursue in 1966, Thanks to the 30. residents who Volunteered to assist. The Board will call you after the holidays.  Next in popularity were additional ‘snow plowing, classified mailers, more GRIT editions, and tied were expanded triathlon and more get-togethers (in descending order of number of votes.)  We Hear You. The Board will follow your directions in order of popularity, to the dest of its ability, Fund limitations Heep us from doing everything at once, of course. Homeouner due= provide over 55%" of our budget so the membership committee is campaigning hard to have every family know the benefits of membership in SHHA. Snow plowing im particularly expensive. As reported in the last GRIT, we have in the budget $2500 for the 1905-1985 year. Soon we will have @stiestes as to the cost of the jogging and bicycle path. You can help. us with these and ail our prosects by encouraging your neighbors to Join SHHA.  Neighborhood Activity Grqupe--The most interest was shown in forming a Niking and. backpecking group, followed quite closely by family” block parties. Ali_of the suggested activites received enough votes to warrant their formation. Others were written in on the furvey ang” aay or may mot have’ enough support. For details read "Neighbor Gather” elsewhere in this. issue. Your enthusiasm 15 contagious anda strong indication that traditional Sandia Heights Reighborliness lives on.  Gonments end Suanestions--There were scads of individual comments. on your surveys. We very much appreciate your taking the time and having the caring to write tous. To Stee, we will be telephoning ‘or already nave) because your concern was so specific. For ati. others, we value your opinions and concerns and will take this time to respond.  When are your” meetings? Can anyone cone? The Board meets the second Wednesday of every aonth, at the Fire Station, at 7150 Dem. All welcome.  We need more information on good restaurants, medical facilites lost and found items, the guard what's going on at tne County” Commission, etc. All of these ideas are being handed over to the GRIT chairperson, Judy Harris. She now has a nice group of Volunteers to assist in getting this information into the GRIT.  We want te see the board do thist playground equipment for the parks hold yard clean-up days} erect a neighborhood bulletin bosray sponsor @ youth holiday, a fun run, a skating party, a sloppy slalom  put up volleyball court in the park. We will pursue all as interest and funds permit.  =-Continued on next page- -2  Why doesn’t the Soard do these things: better street signs: pick Up astray animals; erect “no soliciting” signs: improve road Signs} build ‘more tennis courts; publish a neighborhood map; give fewcomer coffees) extend the guard services landscape the entrances. Be aware that our roads are county roads. The neighborhood is open to the public so we cannot legally forbid soliciting. That is why the former signs came down. The good news is that you can digplay a sign that forbids soliciting on your own propery. The Board works. with Alvarado Realty that repairs the roads. We believe they are the Best maintained roads in Bernalillo County. We are in constant touch with the County Commission that controls the Tramnays (Road and Blvd.) We are lobbying on = continuing basis for such things as street lights and. the widening of Tramay Blvd, The GRIT keeps you posted. The county also handles loose aniaals. Anyone may call the dog catcher" if he chooses. Road and SH signs, and the Four Seasons Club (pool and tennis), landscaping and’ guard services are responsibilities of Alvarado Realty. We pass along wants and wishes on @ regular basis (an Alvarado representative attends our monthly foctings.) They will receive a copy of the survey results, Feel free to call them directly, of course.  There is an excellent map of the neighborhood in your directory and the Board nas sponsored newcomer coffees for many years. They are always announced in the GRIT well in advance. The guard service is adsinistered by Alvarado Realty, More service will cost nor foney, of cour  We want more covenant enforcesent. See the President’s Report by Rab Freesan in this issue for the latest here. This is dear to many hearts they it as the strongest reason that Sandia Heights is Albuquerque's most desirable neignborhood (as vated by & local bank survey in 1965.)  Where “are ay parking stickers? Free parking passes for the Tram parking lot are given, one to 2 family, in your welcome packet as a Gift from Alvarado Realty. Thereafter, every year SHHA members eceive a pass inside their neighborhood directory as a privilege of membership. You may use the pass for any car you drive. New directories go to press as clowe to the first of the year as possible. 1986 passes for SHHA members will be enclosed when directories are delivered to you by a Board member (late Jans, early Fab.). Any problems? Look inside your directery, then call your president, Rab Freeman, 295-2977.  Thanks for responding to the survey. Let's keep in touch becaui  'SANDIA HEIGHTS IS WORTH IT!  LEP RR REE EIS ISOC EOI DE DOE ODE DDE EEE EERE EET  ADVERTISING FOLICY NEWSLETTER DEADLINE  Non-commercial ads (baby- For the April, 1986 issue ts sitting, house sitters, situa~  € Wednesday, March 12th. tions wanted, etc.) FREE : Commercial ads ~ainimun . Please submit articles and #25 per 1/4 page. 2 ads to Judy Harris, 318 Big Horn Business card size - $25  ¢ Ridge Road NE, 299-6803 per year les) . All commercial ads must Peeeeeeeeereeenenee be camera-ready and correctly = * sized. :  Please patronize and thank our advertisers!  onnenenen  7  een  Se  NEIGHBORS GATHER  For your convenience, SHMA is giving two get-togethers in fOr all those who expressed interest in forming sroups and  The following groups will be formed or expanded if enough folks come or call to express interest: hiking, backpacting, bridge, Book Elub, golf, cooking (and) eating), stitehery, opera, bird watching, nature club, family block parties, youth activities, camera club, Bible study, softball team, ski club, preschool play group, dine ang theater group, crafts, tennis, dancing, serobics, musician groups, Spanish lessons, political club. One gathering is on a weekday morning, the other on a weekend Come to either and meet your neighbors with similar Help get groups started. Mert the Board member in charge of neighborhood activities. You are welcane whether you answered the survey or net. After these gatherings, groups will meet incividually only.  Wed. Jan. 15th. 10 Home of Carolyn Hudson, 699 294-2597  iuebied Lane  Sat., Jan. 18th, 10230 a.m, Home of Lynne Behnfield, 228 Spring Creek Lane 299-7878  If you are unable to attend either event but are interestes in participating in any of the groups mentioned, please let Carelyn or Lynne know. They co-chair the Membership Committee and their numbers re iseted above. Your name and number will be given to the group leaders welected at the get-together  SANDIA HEIGHTS. WE"RE WORTH IT!  MORE EFFICIENT BILLING Sandia Heights is growing—-and growing up!  Sone Jobs have overstressed the abilities of your volunteer, elected beard. Sending association bills is one of them.  We are joining the electronic age and will be sending computerized bills after the first. of the year.” It will eave us money, LOTS of volunteer hours, and surely be more efficient. We will be using the Alvarado Realty computers and will bill residents by the month instead of annually (#50 annual menbership fee divided by 12 months = $2.80 per aonth.)  If you are now a paid member in good standing (an asterisk on your addreue label), you won't see an association figure on your monthly water and garbage bill until July 1986, ‘That is the end of our fiscal year.  We are doing cur best to have a snoath transition but we are human and MAY male a mistake or tno, Be kind to your volunteer Board fenbers when you call to report trouble: Carolyn Hudson, 294-2375  or Lynne Uehnfiels, 299-7078 (eves.); or Jon Freeman, 292-3647. Thanks!  ue ARE YOU A PERFECT ASTERISK * + * * 2  What will an asterisk get you? All the rights and privileges of full membership in the Sandia Heights Home Owners Association (SHHA).  How do you attain full asteriskhood * * * *2 You pay a mere $30 a year or & cents a day. Every mailing you receive from your Board of Directors will have an asterisk beside your name 10 indicate yOu are a member in good standing.  Whae'll it get you? ‘ODE TO AN ASTERISK  Issues of Grit with the latest poop Plows on the road scrape snow, and scoop  Neighborhood park for your exercise Parking permit when you patronize  Contests and coffees, pentathlon Covenants, making the uglies all gone  Spitty directory tells all it should Names, maps and numbers the neighborhood  Board members go to commission meets Picnics and fireworks, countless treats  Gas lines and jog trails and groups convene Gourmet, bridge, sewing, golf, birds are keen  Opera, books, block parties, hiking group Backpacking Sandia makes tongues droop  Don't miss the funy be an asterisie Joining SHHA ain't no risk.  Now that you have the complete story, try pronouncing “asterisk” three times rapidly. No cheating: it's ass-te  sau ausmase  LESSONS IN Kg © We > ai re ig Ti Te Gt Wo Sg  The Sandia Heights Bridge Club continues to. meet the Sra Monday of the month. To. join this friendly group composed of all levels of “players and open to any Sandia Heights brisge sthusiast, call Sara Warford at 2 : -s  Thank You for Your Assistanc  Winter 2s the time of year when birds most often fly into the large windows of Sandia Heights hoes. Many die after doing so. Certain. measures can be taken to reduce the number of collisions, but no doubt they will continue to occur.  Some 900d can be. derived from this tragedy as the Miseum of Southwestern Biology at UNM can add these specimens to their collection, If you wish to contribute to science in this way, please do the following:  1) Place the dead bird in a plastic bag.  2) Recors the date anc your address on a small piece of paper.  3) Place the paper in the bag with the bird.  4) Seal the bag.  5) Place the bag in a freezer as scon as possible.  4) Deliver the specimen to the museum in the basement of the biology building at UNM, OF  7) Call 299-1768 to have it picked up.  From BERNALILLO COUNTY FIRE DISTRICT #5 serving Sandia Heights, Tierra Monte and North Albuquerque Acres  HELP US FIND You!  We have a major problem with which only you can help us. Too often our response to your call for help i delayed by the simple fact we cannot find YOU! We resort to reading mail Box Numbers, watching for upset people, or house lights late at night. Frequently We have to ask our dispatcher to call you back for directions and description of your home, thus delaying us even more by waiting for an answer. There are those times when 2 rapid response is vital to Saving a life or a home.  By doing some basic things, YOU can help us serve you better. First,” check the outside of your home. Can your house numbers be easily “read from the street, especially at might? Plain or reflective numbers from 4 to 6 inches tall would help enormously. Should you live down a lane or a dead-end road it would help if you and your neighbors could also post your house numbers at the main road turn-off inte your location.  Many home supply centers, hardward stores and variety store carry a selection of wxcellent size and visible house numbers.  THANK YoU!  JFUROPEAN Professional Home Service reared  MIKE MALOU. SR ieee te om Ra 9 HT © Housecleaning ‘Autor Sn, Sve & ening  0 sete nents Ager Ne Ginny Prise ‘Faropean Delivery oy  A WEEK!  Sunday Movie Always / Price NOW 2 LOCATIONS!  Zunl-San Mateo Plaza Caracol Plaza ‘3855 Zuni S.E. Montgomery at Tramway 7100 296-7702,  08299 e203  cteative needlepoint  310 09 Horn Rage Roat NE ‘Abvasrase Now Monco 87122  PRINCE OF PEACE |  TC COMMUNITY  . OF PASEO DEL NORTE <_W.0F TRAMWAY  manned by Albuquerque 911  peopl  will be put in direct be asked ©  ath  the 911 operator and €) Type of problem  If at night, Do “NOT  HANG UP  A suggestion is to p to help reduce confusion wher been Known to forget their own mam  REMEMBER, we are help, tos.  Fire & Medical Emergencies.  Bernalillo County  Use a flasmiight or until information and so indicates,  tor fire, of the phone from which you are  involved. If possible, have  also  signal  Fire Dist  ra ana atv rouse Sa iw ned  MANNER OF THINGS FOR TCHEN AND TABLE  *A STORE FOR COOKS  MON-SAT 106 299-9091  een pasinennrnpe pes  