= me ont AS  >a SS vottne to, 7 SandiaMle ghtsPto, cowner a  meowners#€ ssociation  ‘A MESSAGE FROM YOUR PRESIDENT What 18 quality of :11#e?. . . One obvious answer of where you live and siting the majority of your time, This iv ty ‘iret. letter to the residents Presidentvof, your Hamgowner’s Association. I am excited about the prospects of what can. be accomplished during the ensuing year. I feel that reaffstic” goals, among thers, include’ the continued enforcesant of covenants within Gur legal means, further cooperation and coordina— Eion with the Sandia Peak Tran Company to better facilitate services to all of Us, and. the planning of a Jogging/Bicycle path in conjunction with the monitoring af highway improvements of Tramway Boulevard. We will need from you an increased involvement in Association for the continuation of programs like the Newcomer Welcoming, ectory, Home-Holiday Decorating Contest, Spring Fling and y apa cther events ta which you have becon@ sccustomed. We an’ atoneenner’s Ansociation are in existence, in part, to help insure the continuation of cur great living habitat in Sandia Heights. During the next-year, with your help, I intend for this Association to  strive to improve what is in all of our best interests . + - quality of  te the enjoyment  Sandia Heights as  John N. Freeman, President Sandia Heights Homecuner’® Ausoctation 292-3647  NEIGHBORHOOD COFFEES  Tuesday, @ July; 10100 asm. Marianne Tregembo 294-5: 16% Juniger Mill Road  Tuesday, 12 August, 10:00 2.0. Donna Delue 294-4851, #30 Sandia Heights Drive  Please cone and meet your neighbors. Call your hostess if you'd like to attend se she can plan accordi Thank you, Bartha Wirtz, for the nice coffee in May  NEW OFFICERS OF G.H.HeAcs President ~ Bill Jackson, Secretary ~ Don McBrics  €<€€E<<c<casdSSS5N5N>_—--  FIRE-WATCH, JULY 4, 1986  At a meeting of the Boars of Directors of your Homeowners Associ~ ation, 1€ was deemed necessary to institute sone preventive measures to Alleviate the extremely hazardous conditions that ensued last year due fo the indiscriminate use of all kinds of fireworks, most of which were of the illegal variety.  Approxiaately 20 members of the Sandia Heights Homeowmers Assoc: ~ ation have volunteered to serve as fire-watchers during the critical evening hours of the July 4 celebrations, Additionally, Sandia Peak Tras Company will assist in this by having at least two security officers on patrol during the night.  ‘These residents will undertake to cruise the area of their respec~ tive resigences to alert E.C.F.D. District 3 of any conflagrations that may occur due to the use of fireworks of any type and to obser’ and report on the igniting of any illegal fireworks. Specifically, the latter is recognized as being a device that may be propelled into the Bir to a height of more than 10 feet and explode or detonate with « loud noise. The use of such devices ere prohibited by law and subject to a fine of $1,500 anc/or a term of imprisonment. You should note too that "sparklers" are considered extremely dangerous because of their intense burning capacity and when thrown’ cen still be capable of causing brush tir  The fire-watch volunteers will not be acting in any official city and will Nave no authority to order cessation of use of illegal fireworks, Neither are they vigilantes. Their sole aim is to protect you and” your neighbors from possible injury and property Gamage. ‘The whole Sandia Heights area is extremely vulnerable to fire fang the unnecessary and wilful ume of fireworks should not be condoned in any manner:  Violators will be called on and requested to cease and desist. Non-cooperation will result in names and addresses being furnished to the Bernalillo County Sheriff's Department for any action they may deem necessary.  PLEASE COOPERATE FULLY IN EVERY RESPECT AND HELP INSURE A GANE AND SAFE JULY 4TH!  VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTHENT In the recent supplemental issue of "THE GRIT" we wrote on the t of our Volunteer Fire Department and their fund drive. Ther was a typo. Inadvertantly it was stated that of the 1,053 mailings we Rag Iwan than S00 replies, whereas the situation mas sven worse, To date we have received only 221 donations. Please give District 5 all the nelp you can. With the new station to be fitted aut later in the year we urgently need assistanc Duly Ath is fast approaching and the dangers related to the use of  any and ‘all fireworks is upon us. Your full cooperation is needed to make this a fire and accident free celebration.  ‘Thought for todays  SPIRENEN STILL MAKE HOUSE CALLS" “Babysitting Vacation house watching Plants watered Pet care Call Meiisss Bova (12) 292-8246  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION Annual Homeowners Meeting Si May 1986  ‘This year's annual meeting was highlighted by the attendance of quests, dy, who gave a report on progress in getting Trae may Boulevard widened, and by lyle Painter and Bill Real from the  Gas Company, who passed out literature and answered questions about  the piping of natural gas inta existing Sandia Heights neighber— hoods,  Pat reported that = recount of Tramay Blvd. traffic indicated the requirusent for four lanes. The county has already funded $100,022 as partial funding for an engineering design. The city is being asked for ¥100,000 and the county for an additional #102,000 to complete funding for the design. A #2 million bond issue should be placed on the next general election ballot to begin actual con~ struction. #19 million is required for the total project.  Six new menbers were elected to the SHHA Board of Directors. The board meabership is nowt  John Freeman, President Lynne Behnéield Roger Hoppe Dennis Burt Mike Cox *Brian Garland Judy Harris Carolyn Hudson Bill Jackson Don McBride Harry Ottinger Jim Randall Rod Stewart sRalph Tate Sora Warford (indicates new senber) or  reported that the Memorial Day Spring Fling was the biggest ever with at least twice the turnout of last year  Serious concern was expressed by several homeounern about the upcoming 4th of July celebration and the danger to our environment and homes from the use of illegal fireworks. Last year, fireworks remulted in several ¢iras, some threatening hones. 1A aGtton wa  ed dirmcting the SHHA’Board to take an active part, this year, {n'itiegal firework control. Suggestions were made hat this action be manifested through neighborhood fireworks watches with designated patrollers wno would record nanes of blatant o} and wate  John Freeman made an impromptu report on the major accomplish— ments of the SHIA Board of Directors over the past year and Credited Chairperson Rab Freeman with excellent leadership. He stressed the following specific accomplishments:  1, Establishaent of a written agreement with the Tram Company  for services and obligations (snow resoval, park eainten- covenant control, adainistrative services, billing  for SA dues)  2. SHHA weabership doubled 3. Questionnaire on what SHHA meabers expect of the oroani~ zation and Lts Board of Directors. Initial action on  implementation of questionnaire results. ult Of (1.) above.  Chureh of the Good Shepherd 7033 Tramway Blvd, NE. 299-6482 Beginning: June 2 - 2 days a week (Tuesdays and Thuredays) Hours! 9-4 = drop-in on Cast: $1.50 per nour (ist chile)  $1.00 per hour (2nd child or more children in the same family)  an hourly  Ages months through 5 years ‘Snack provided Sack lunch required if child will  be there over lunch hour  A wide range of developmental ang fun” programs planned. Supervised by 2 Certified Pre-School teacher  with many years experienc:  ween  ‘“THUMB-NAIL® DESCRIPTIONS OF 2 NEW BOARD MEMBERS  Dennis Burt (new treasurer) 667 Roadrunner Lane, 294-7835. Wife's name is Marys two children ~ Dana aoe 14, Ryan age 10; Iived in Sandia “Heights since 1961. Dennis 1s senior partner in. the CPA firm of Burt, Wright & Co, Mary is the owner St The Fashion Page + Minrock Center. Ralph Tate 1946 Quail Run Moved to SH in from the Omaha area. retired Air Force and wife, Ruth, is a retired teacher. In Bellevue, Nebraska Ralph war on the City Planning Commission ang the School Board. Three grown children.  Leer. June of  eenee  WINE MARGARITAS Blend together! 1 12 frozen limeade, 1 can-full white wine, 1/2 can-Full waters Rub lime slices around edge oF Glasses or gobletay dip in margarita Salt. Pour margaritas aver ice and Garnish with lime slice. Makes 4 fo 6 servings. Thanks to Lori!  ory  ftnee  a>  Diane Brewer  ($08) 7960308 pea  (sos) "220 8802  creative needlepoint  318 8g Hom Mage Road. NE ‘Area. hom ance 07122  FUR  MIKE MALOU, SR hn (9084214600 Ren 808 2952738 ‘Authorised Sales, Service 8 Leasing SoMew Seeopean Bellvery  ABRUOGE ES  ew we Riding %  FS  ‘ASJGUERQUE NOM 87122  surounteo aoc NEIGHBORHOOD CLEAN-UP  Your SHHA Board of Directors in callaboration with, Sandia Peak Tram Company has set aside Sunday, June 29 as Sandia Heights Beautifica~ tion Day. All residents are requested and encouraged to. participate by collecting trash on or about their premises and depositing it in the usual trash collection area in front of homes. The only rule requested is that all refuse be contained in some manner. Sandia Peak Tram Co. has arranged for a special trash pick-up on Monday, June 30 during which normal collection restraints (e.g. motor 011) will be waived.  ANIMAL CONTROL  wcNore and more animals Nave been cberved running at large throughout the community. As a reaindar to animal owners, the following excerpts of County Ordinance 83-37 are quoted for information and guidance.  SECTION VD Every person owning or having charge, custody or care or control of any dog shall keep such animal axclusively upon his own premises either by an enclasure surrounding the perimeter boundaries of his property or 2) 9n a chain or leash not less than aight (8) feet in length. Dogs are Permitted on the streets or public places ef the county only if on a secure leash not exceeding six (4) feat in length and under the tamedi~ ate control of the person having custody thereof.  Na dog or cat’ or other menber of the canine or feline families is allowed on a public playground, swimsing pool or school yard.  SECTION VI A  Te is unlawful for any person to allow or permit any animal to run at large in or on any Street, alley, sidewalk, vacant lot, public property, other unenclosed place in’ the county; or private property without the permission of the owner thereof. Any anisal permitted to run at large in violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance, a menace to public health and safety, and shall be taken up and impounded,  ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE  SECTION VIE  Tt 1s Unlawful fer any person to allow any animal to unreasonably bark, howl or make noise common to their species, or otherwise to disturbs the peace and quiet of the inhabitants of the County of Bernalillo, or to Neon or maintain in such = manner as to distur by novious” or offensive odors, or otherwise endanger the health and welfare of the inhabitants of the County of Bernalillo.  PENALTY CLA  SECTION-x A  Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a misdeseanar, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding three hundred (300) dollars and/or imarisoneent for a period not exceeding ninety (90) days. Each day this Ordinance is violated shall be considered a separate offense.  ‘ODD JOB SPECIALISTS Tumbleweed removal and burning, house sitting, plant watering, baby sitting, animal sitting, tree and. plant spraying, will help with moving and packing, etc.  Call for estimates on any odd job: 294-7402 gr 294-7655 Sask fort Kyle or Lowell Williams  f i j  2 macnum Homes 2 went _ a yer cnaeetieet fem DAVE WERNICKE, Owner W017 annimal crackers, (td a se ee "od montgomery td. na Coronado ‘academy Child De cone  Stuffes animals-over 3000 aut ful oa Collectors items  ESe<e2d555  Crest Gold DAYTINE CHILD CARE NEEDED (Say Sold)  Custom Design  Kathleen Jackson (505) 202-1851  SERVANTS OF HOPE  Sok o Fie  amr Me Road N KEN AROSE BRIN 1408 Womieg NE WERTISING POLICY arr oars Prnopiane 2 cia  SERVANTS OF JESUS  (A Ministry of Helps « /Cor 1  e , FREE MOVIE CLUB MEMBERSHIP VIDEOJONCTION EAT AL  ® 2 day rentals on ¢ 4 Rent one movie, get the y weekdays 2nd FREE! . JUAN TABO along with bonus movie #8 day rentals on rental PUNCH CARD! BETA and VHS weekends Au 2-Day Movie Rentals with coupon  Expires 7-31-86 © Movie rates are $2.50,  semahdiaed to oe asarone Cupar 10 FREE  © 10 FREE movie rentals WE RENT MOVIE RENTALS VCR's, CAMERAS « 2% discounton PS area with purchase of any  purohase on SHIP. Join our club and  merchandise not on ‘ wale blenk tapes, Pee EES cet all your movie rentals  movies, VCR's, etc. 292 7063 for % Price! win coupon iad xpires 7~:  (LBTS HAVE A TUPPOWARE PARTY 111111 S.LD=  KATHY BREWER  505 294-3246 Southwest ia ‘TUPPERAARE DEALER Interior  SUPER HOSTESS GIFTS 1 Design  SS eee2555D  Families and Individuals Joining Between July 1, 1966 and August 1, 1984, will realize a savings  The Four Seasons Club sui ming,  for Single Mesbership.  By Lye  22128 WN ‘anew: SN THT No. S NHOP ‘NYWaSHd +  | } “FINE 1] 2 “BEDROOM a) Ee FURNITURE from the beautiful  simplicity of a basic bed Flotation Sleep at it's “Best” to the elegance of an +90 days same a cosh SI  oak bedroom set.  WATERBEDS °= ===  "Your Something Special Store” 888-; @ 888-3545 88-3998 =e  4408-C Menaul Bivé. N.€.(Near Washington) as  