Vatame x  Teabed  Combined Annual Meeting & Picnic Draws 235+ Attendees  Heathyattendanceatthe1992SandiaDitetors and their areas of responsi- Heights Homeowners Association  bilty appears on page 12, (SHHA) Annual Member’ Meeting The annual Spring Fling picnic st ‘onJune6,fllowedbyaspaitedSpring Sandia Heights Park began imamedi- Fling picnic at Sandia Heights Park, ately following the meeting's adjour Provided a fitting climax for the ment, Grilled hamburgers wereserved ‘Association's 1991-92 fiscal year. to more than 238 Sandia Heiehtsrsi- ity SHIA members attended the dents and thet pests. Paicipant in Annual Meeting and Board of Direc- the Sandia Classic National Hang Gli tors election atthe County's District ing Compettion filled the skies over 488 Fite Station. Committe Chairs Sandia Crest. Winds were very favot- ‘gave bref reports on the past year's able, andthe hang pliers amazed pic- activities. The 1991-92 Annual Report nickers with the height and longevity (see insen) was distibuted to atend- of ther lights, ees ating, visitng, and drawings for Electionofsixnew direcorstoserve door prizes were popular activities Jyeat terms onthe SHHA Boandcon- among the adults. Meanwhile the cluded the meeting. A completelistof younger set prefered faccpaizt the newly-elected 1992-93 Board of Cantnued on page  Inflated and detated, the hot air balloons atthe ‘Spring Fig Picnic were @ favonte with the chidren  Sandia Heights. Homerurners firociation  Majority Favors Keeping Sandia Heights Park  Final park survey results ates, More than $00 responses were recered. p= resenting 46 percent of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association's (SHHA’s) total membership.  Based on the survey results, the SHHA Board conchided that SHA members favor the ongoing financial support of Sandia Heights Park with ‘Assocation dues, However, members clesely do not want’ a County park withinthe Sandia Heights community  During 1992.93 the Patks & Ree ation Commitee plans increased ef- forts to reduce the allocation of Asio- ciation dues to Sandia Heights Park including review of possible funding sources and implemeetation 0  suestoredce expenses. Fullanasis snd comsideration of comments and suggestions on the park survey is planned along with improvements ad publicity forthe community's reere- ‘ional tals. Continued suppor for  | pssoge of a County Park Ordimaoce  aso isa pronty.  Thanks tothe excellent survey rua sate, the SHHA Board of Dictor is confides the Association obtained an ‘accurate reading on mewnbers’ opin- ions regarding neighborhood pars  Continued on pose 4 PO Box 20021 Albaguerge, NM 87IS$.0021  Alloqurgue, NME 87128 Zssi2  PUBLISH! MICRODATA ise  fo Harry Cre 326 Pinch NE  Advertsing Rates Annual Meeting ‘Annual Report. ‘Bridge Club Bulletin Board (Chasifed Ads ‘Community Cotes. ‘GRIT Circubtion  SHHA Directory Spring Fling Picnic  ‘View From Jackra Til. Wildflower Chi  Saar Se] Roundhouse Report We oficial needing jut ev mor ava tema  ‘opportune time to shift wo a legislative muli-istrict cola.  ‘The southem thind of Sandia Heigtas (Stte House District 31) will coatinue under therepresertation of kip Niel. Mark Caruso will represent the northern two-thirds of Sandia Heights (State House District 23), In Jacuary, Tom Wray will be swom in asthe Senator representing all of ‘Sandia Heights (State Senate District 21), replacing Victor Marshall who hase not 1 seek reelection  ‘One ofthe most importa, nd often most dificul, portions of out job  istryng to get adequate public inpot. We are here not only torepresent the concerns of our state but also, more specifiy the citizens of our districts. InJancary, we will begin a 60-day session which includes both budgeting and non-budget issues (unlike our 30 day session).  Instead ofa commentary/editoral or lpisiative preview, we're reaching. ‘cattoyouand asking youre communicate withus. We want to know what's ‘bugging you; what You feel needs to be stopped or started: what we can do to bener communicate with you .  Please ake five minutes and te usaposteart Straight ak, right tothe ‘point. We will and do act on constituent requests.  ‘We look forward to receiving your maitand comments. Thank you for siving us the: ity to Fepresex! you!  48 Di Rep. Kip Nicely (2-0  1190 Laurel Lp. NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122 22537  if feline 2)  7823 Repubic NE Albugoerque, NM 87109 33-000  31  Ga las,  Way Se Smee Ee 058 20 Tes Weary tener to Ae Aegon SM oe  Seo  Page  —= = pesos = 2 Recycling Satadays forthe next three months are August 22, September 26, and October 24. Bring your  ‘ecyclabies haween 9 and {1 2m. tothe Quail Run Center, 2700 San Rafal, ens curently acepted for ‘recycling ae aluminunn types 1 and 2 plastics, newspapers, and Kraf paper botes.  {1 A hazardous wast collection center at 6133 Edith NE is now open every Friday ftom 8:30 am, to 4:30 p.m. ‘and every Saturday ffom 8 am. to3 pam. The center only accepts hazardous wastes fom individuals, not ‘basnesses, People should bring wastes ~ suchas paint, paint thinner used motor oil caustic cleanets, poo! chemicals, old vehicle batteries, insecticides and herbicides ~ i thei original containers,  2 There will be no refuse collection oa Monday, September 7 in observance of Labor Day, Refse will be collected on the following day, Tuesday, September 8.  i Speci thanks to Sandia Heights Resident Floyd Wilson who very generously donated new basketball oops for Sandia Heights Park  A joint pobic bearing bythe County Planning Commission andthe City Environmental Planning Commision ‘onthe proposed Ground Water Policy and Action Plan(GPPAP) was postponed until sometime inthe fil 10 allow time to try and reconcile concems about the policy. Watch for medting announcements in The GRIT and the Peak Review:  {2 Quality Water Resources has placed flyers at residences within Sandia Peak Unity Co.'s service are that ‘contain misinformation and wisstatemints about the qualay of water provided to Sandia Heights residents ‘There is NO groundwater contamination in Sandia Heights nor are the wells used bythe Sandia Peak Utility Co, coutaminted, In analyssiesuts of sampling for $1 unregulated contaminants requied by the New ‘Mexico Health and Environment Department, contaminants were foun" nondetected above detection level". ‘Tests for lead and copper requzed by the EPA ae inthe process of being setup and results will be published 4s s00n as they're available, Ifyou haven't tamed in your completed survey tothe Peak Utility Co. ple ‘dosoright away, Call Judy Tumer (296-9585) or Bill Baker (294-7187) f you need more information,  (G The Tramway Landscaping Task Force continues 19 work with County, City, and State officials to secure funding fot Tramway Blvd landscaping, with possible solutions pending. Watch for announcements!   Deeto a recent increase in problems with vandalism and trespassing residents ae reminded thatthe openness tnd generat absence of walls and fences ia the Sandia Heights communty is iter a license nor aa open invitation o trespass actos private propenty. Excepefor County roads and rights-of-way andthe very fee ‘dedicated pubic easements, al property ia Sandia Heh is private prope. Residents are asked 0 please respect he rigs and privacy ofthe ueighbors by staying onthe public toads and adjacent sights-of-way and Dyinforming thei children todo likewise. Let'smake sure we don't haveto become a community of “fence- brads” in cde to preserve and protect our hts to propesty and privacy.   Bosiness is booming for the SHHA Architeural Review Commitee’ The all-volunteer committee asks ropeny owners to please allow ample time for review and approval of proposed constretiontenovation [Projects Projets must be reviewed inthe ordrin which they're received. Pet the covenants. the Comatee as upto 30 days to review and approve plans. Working ite nights ad weekends in onder to compensate for poor planning by propery owner iru service above andteyond ubat shouldbe requiedothese dedicated ‘commonity volomters. Call the SHHA office (275.0112) if you need submittal forms or information onthe architectural review process  Page 4  Deadline for the  November GRIT “THE GRIT" ADVERTISING RATES. X paymet and inrmaton fe No  ‘vember issue of The GRIT is Wednes= day, October 15, 1992, Please subi all materisisto Sherry Lombana, 14201 Encaatado Rd. NE, Albuquerque, NM 87123, 275-9112, Advertisers should Diy ah $40 epg 81 pr ag 1 pr pote that ad space is limited and is  reserved on 2 first come, first served ‘basis. Payment must accompany ad space reservations,  GRIT Circulation  This issue of The GRIT was mailed to the 1075 members of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Associaton.  Park Survey ‘Other Desired Park Amenities: Contined from page 1 Most requstedamenity was more tes  ann shade (11 requests) followed by aad, more specifically, Sandia Heights Pat Specific rests were a follows hrhnsoms (9), water foun (6), and  (Note: Sometimes respondents dil not answer al questions) mote playgrousd equipment (S). BBQ ‘grills and more grass area each =  ned et-824 poe  Cliteataton or sd tenant perme  feed equa i vl ‘Sandia Heights Park Survey Results ‘counnet and horseshoe pit, Other  wa too Steps anged on adopts  siti porctoneo bacon  ‘masked Yes n order of importance wi 31 being ment umportaat. ranking with 44 requests for increased 4) Crassed ball park/soucer fet” Neds 303 Yes aok 193 | S0utity measures; 42 respondents pro~ 4) Chitdren’s playground equipment? No 3 219 Yew Reak 208 | pressedby 4! members; various neigh~ Saeed aperenc mapa Set  0 on iniia sie Taprved tat od ssw toro 3-Day fh cate fami ptf Sie es tas Cheap end weve Habis, 0 ‘with Homevemers Association dues? — ae o~ Ye ceived a total of 40 votes; 22 members freed cea onsen  land were availabe, wuld you be w faves of # County Bivd.; improved biking/biking wails  ‘the Four Seasons Club including lighted Continued on page 5 Park Survey lj  Continued from page ¢  nase ape cs Support Your  et ee ogmenses es aes Grit Advertisers mone | mo avers ran | oe  AVOl SHHA  Community goes everywhere under the sun. Coffees (Our sun bck i rated one ofthe best,  Our Skin So Sof can help repel those pesky gnats, and  Mest new neighbors and see “old” ‘Our tragrances, lotions and cosmetics wil Keen you  (Gente ecommumiyone, Mat —y  your calendar and notsty your hostess fest ang ereny even wnen Vemearanures ss  itjeuplantstendsothatshecanplan | | Call fra free catalogue and a vacation packing lt accordingly Call Beth Stl a 296 4504 if you would liketo havea coffee Wynne Yood 296-920) if you eda tide” Everyone is welcome! | vig Sati ies Wedeesiny, Aug. 19.10a.m-12 008 360 nies il Ri e791 MAX SANCHEZ...  UR BEST CHOICE  ‘Sunda Heighes has a sper lteraive ‘ ondinay wal emtet. Ma Sa  Wedoesday, Sep. 16, 10m.-128000 atthe bome of Ann Marie Cale  9101 Lynx Lp, ‘omic one of Aboaerga' op te 293-1949 provces, ead wih the owned TL  Farnese Rest, flee you Real Tstate  Wedemésy, Oc: 14, 10 nmr? p00 Sapirdvapanpil a tee home of fancy Sisk Sax Sanches lives in Sanda Heighs, loves Sandia High. an  . Imows the etry ke twat Baclgard — Became Mk is 05 Quai Ran Ce tctyad Fee praia service and fan aeandwineng eas 291-8910 {all Mat whe you Duy ost in Sanda Hel  ‘Max anche the Sandia Heights Speciale  Special thanks to Misra Fre Maryelo McCay, and George and Seach, A Bonnie High who best our cofTees ia Boker  in May, June, aod July J  Vays that were viven away By the  2 the children 35 the |  Nancy Centex Proposes New Subdivision In Sandia Heights  family detached homes (dwell  Residents with questionsconcems about the proposed development say cosract the SHHA Director of New  l! to HELP you. If anything goes |. }} wrong, breaks, or wears out  | Estimates are free.  That 's what we are here for -  around your home or office - we are ready to HELP. |  We are ql full-service i generalcontractors ; specializing in i Remodeling and  Maintenance. Nomatterhow }j small orlarge your problemis,  we stand ready to HELP. Give usa callltoday. QurAdvice and  Property And Land Services, | Remodeling» Constucton + Maintenance 266-3171  Bonded  | Insured License 428876  ‘Sandia Heights Security Report  possible. Keep vehicles that ae parked ouside locked tall times, Unlocked veicls are an open invitation  | fet advan |  Do yourparttopreserveand maintain Sandia Heights asa safe and secure place to live by subscribing 10 the | Sandia Heights Security Patrol, Call the Sandia Peak | | Tram Co. (296-9885) for information on security  || services and subsenption rats  Sandia Heights Secure Patra Cats |) | Jan-Jun, 1992 in ||  Tope of Call # |  Motorist Assit  Breaking & Entering (BAE)* Arompled BE" ‘Consreton Site Barglay>* Suspicious Vehicle Swipciows  Barking Dog. Lost Pet  Found Pet  Sake  Family Disp Neighbor Dispuie  Loud Daseupave Paty Motoreycle Nuisance Fire Works Complaint Vadalin (Genera Mailbox Vandalism Speeing Vice Unusual Special Request Salesman Probie:  Phone Problems 4 (Car Accident 0 Fe 0 Rescve a ‘aly Co, Assist 3» CConaretion Sites 0 Vacant Houses (For Sale et) 8 Special (Ext Paol Observation) 0 Homeowners on Vacation sas TOTAL CALLS. sis  Baha'u'llah Founder of the Baha'i Faith, | brought these teachings in 1863:  ‘The Oneness of the World of Humanity ‘The Foundation of all Religion is One Equality between Men and Women || Independent Investigation of Truth  ‘The Abolition of all Forms of Prejudice | Spiritual Solution of Economic Problems  |  For more information call | 293-1845  Low, level insurance rate  guaranteed for 10 years.  TRansanenica  SHHA To Publish Directory  Cathy Conn  from Sandia Heights / + $9.6 Million 1991 Sales * One of TOP TEN Realtors in Albuquerque * Sandia Heights Resident & Neighbor  sights Resident  WARREN AKERSON SIMANT RRAONTAITE  “dscgueen iE  FRANCINE COGEN ASSOCIATE BROKER  ($05) 881-8750 [ECE EEna  | <3 Baward D. Jones & Co: | i  (CREATIVE ENDEAVORS PROGRAMS  ART CLASSES for Preteens Teens/Aduits  Judi’s Studio 505) 296-456 FREE LANCE INTERIORS  + METALLIC LEAF PAINTINGS. SILK DESIONS  Jodi Foster, Ow  ‘ThePrudential >  Camille R. Krinke  Paye 10,  Pi  FINE CUSTOM FRAMING AND ART  ©  ess Cee Galles Lexus  Dealer for (CHARLES FRACE THOMAS RALLY ($08) 85-8800 Home S143 1400-48-1981 (401 Sas Mateo NE + Afbuoergen, NM 87109 SHARON'S HOME CLEANING ‘y) BRLTEguusBY Quality Clearing With A Special Touch \ (Of Caring That You Can SEE and FEEL QS, ev vaughan Company = amen coneeny  Tom Wray Groves/ Wray  GASSOCIATES  Speci in Trove Yvonne G, Campbell ‘SD HEIGHTS RESDENT  (345-8576  ———- ‘CoUWERGiAt © REBIDEWTIAL  Page  ‘There's Lunch Out There  So many comments tumed up about ‘the Jackrabbit Hill column inthe May ‘ssue of The GRIT, particulary about eating tumbleweed, tat I thoughe I'd pass along 2 few recipes to you. Be Sides it’s a beautiful suramer, and I'm basking in the warm days whieh put my bean i low get  Phyllis Hughes, author ofthe Pueblo Indian Coaihook (Moseum of New Mexico Press), was at our Sandia Heights Wildflower Cub meeting last yearand passed on these bis of ink ‘mation ffom her extensive store of knowlege. Shesays: “Young eaves and shoots gathered in eat Spring of plants such as Lambs Quarters, Porslane, Dandelion, Cheeseweed Amaranth, Mustards, Watercress and Deel shoots of Catal and Burdock ‘re ed raw in alae.  “For cooking like spinach orto be used, cooked, in many recipes such as, casseroles quiches and fistas, check. for “bugey” leaves or tough stems — ‘wash well in cold salted ater, drain andcookinstallamount of wateraria steamer, forking over several ies for 10-29minates. Thesdovelited lass plus Peppererass, Fourwing Salbush, Tumbleweed and chopped leaves of Docks and Burdock ave also yood used this way.  Vi  “BLANCHING: Many greens and shoots, especially those with mally juice (1, dandelion and broadieved Milkweed), Chicory and Beeweed, Plantain need tobe covered with Boil Ingwatcrforone minste water poured ff —repeat for another minute erunist taste of bers is gore. then cook ox 10-20 minates and serve a8 de- sired” (I remember my mater teat> ingmustard yreensis way in Clifor-  Pryllis gives this recipe foe Tum- bleweed Quiche. “Cook? cupsyoung 2.S inch tumbleweed plas for min= utes. Chop, speead in peepated pic cma. Add favorite cheese or bacon ‘onion quiche mix. Bake till one.” ‘She adds: “All our Spring quite, whether cooked briefly of blanched first, weleome 2 good dash of vinegar or lemon juice with a garnish of ‘rumbled bacon or sliced hard-boiled eee”  Carolyn Niethamimer's “The Tue Dnemsed Gourmet as, among sever!  iBBIT Hi  tecpes for tumbleweed, Tumiiewess Fretat.  1 cup tumblewesd sprouts 3 butter or margarine 2 potatoes, sliced 1 caion, chopped Sees 27 water Salt and Pepper  ‘Wash and son tumblewed sprots, discarding roots andany s9oczs wha: Ihave matured to the post of fecing prickly. Chop and set aside Melt ‘utter ina large she, Saute chopped ion until imp. Add sliced potatoes and chopped tumbleweed, ering evenly over tomtom of skit. Tam heat to low, cover stillet , sad saute potatoes unt almost soft, sing nd turning occasionally, Beat egos and ‘add water, salt, and pepper to tste, Pour over vegetables and continue ‘cooking oa low, shaking pan occasion ally andliftng vegetables withaspatun soeggcan run underneath. Cook uni eggs or set  Wildfiower | Club  Sandia Heights  || Members and prospective members are invited t the i  || home of Jean and Bill #  Address is 443 Live Oak Lp.  |_Bev Grady 2 275.0798  payment. Truly advertresome ches are urged (dared?) 10 bring one of the "weed" recipes in Jean Heflin’ s lastex  | Bring a casserole, salad, or dessert and $$ anntal dues | Jackrabbit Hil column see above).  fin forapelukappead || | nou etna, Spm 6 |  For more information on club activities call  Great Western Financial Announces  100%  HOME EQUITY LOAN PROGRAM A Loan Program that gives you access to  "100%" of your Home Equity for any purpose  Call Edd bush or Carole Spiess  (505) 291-1342  1992-93 SHHA Board of Directors  |  Barbara Hensonhavcr  Sandia Disc Rep  | | | |  at Support  architectural Review | Roadrunner District  New De  | |  Holiday Bazaa  a Finds We have out-of-state customers for New custom homes and need several lots.  Home |  ‘The 1992 Sandin Heights Home | owners Association Holiday Craft Bazaar will take place on Sunday, | ‘October IS between IT am. andip-m. atone of Roger Smith's model homes just off Tramway Blvd. in Sandia Heights, Watch for signs and flyers ‘announcing the specific address.  i Do you have a quality Sandia Heights | lot that you would sell for cash? I |  | caLLectEORHERSHEL-eRusHWOODHOMES.INC. |  Formerly eld at the District #5 Fite Station on Paseo del Norte, the Holic ay Bazaar had to be moved due to ‘oacers by the County's Risk Man- ‘agemeat Department regarding hab  OLIVIA PINION POWELL  ARTIST /INSTRUCTOR 298-0339  The first onpanizational meeting for the 1992 SHHLA Holiday Craf Bazaar {s scheduled for Wednesday, Septem- ber 2. 7 pam. atthe home of Lucy Rassell 618 Cedar Hill RE Amst and crates in all areas of work are ‘urged to participate inthis event P ticipants mast be residents of either Sandia Heights ot Nom Albuquerque ‘Acres and may sell only personaly tandcratied tems,  CLASSES FORMING NOW  PRIVATE OR GROUP LESSONS erreurs 7 N \@s  SANDIA HEIGHTS RESIDENT  Forte fist ime this year, the bazaar sso will sell homebaked goods suchas cakes pics, breads, preserves, te.  Protect our children. Ariss, crafter of bakes iateresed  poste or serving as botstnsetes fd cashiers should coma Bazar Chair Lay Rusell at 2943583 o¢ Barbora Bensonhaver a 298-570.  Please drive carefully and obey the neighborhood stop signs. Transferred? Relocating?  You DIDN’T BUILD YOUR PORTFOLIO BY WORKING PART-TIME. WHY RISK MANAGING IT THAT WAY?  | Call Vince Yegge at 265-5561 1 | 20 FIND OUT MORE ADOUE CHOICE AD ‘Sheawon Uhinen Brothers —  Non—Commercial Advertising  {en tn ptm ah on a ge Hem ns, once a rent hes in ome abr  coors ne cep ai dbcetion fe eae a  Services  OS ee (Renters Monee 8 2 Ea  Sn fo ho Ay hong. od atone Can ares arog)  Tor Tsp sannve Pool WNT ANCE Ca Ben Wag ae 1) 98 Guteenttendon eons etme  rua eyo mst eng fat | Orbya Han bf egenec nt ond Tice actayeng Recessed | hese te Bs oe ay seg oe  HOLME SITTER Repose 1 rat itindypseedpjonapenlehoe sng Giaessi  PETANDOD LOVER anspor ‘trp ere ad et en  ‘QCALITY KID CARE by cng. We on ‘chay ak ween ape ota ‘Seat ah Sennderat 95.10 Ht sea. So =  ANDREWS VACATION SEROICE Aas Termine Reamer tenga iSSieds eee Soon ene Ando leper  IBY SIT HOLS ST. CL EAN HOUSE, Fe  ‘a SITTENrcnen. eop Ee (raced nape wn ener Pe ‘Stabe ny Bom 98  [BABYSITTER perms amen yard slr tine Ca Lae Ce =  [AAV SITTER FET LOVER, HOUSE SIFT.  (CAMINGAND EXPERIENCED RABY STE anroporale sn canned ree ‘eat Rescruhayatiogowe Careseh cen ge Ht SHAE  EAPERIENCED AND RELIABLE BABY S- ‘Tinos er yo uo oe Tas plnm anmaan  d sd Fe egereced een ber Cat es Taree ge SoS  EXPERIENCED A SITTERS pn er fie amar Eye ag 0 fame ye. tes carseam,  EXPERIENCED QIN SITTER Ensen ounces ot king on ‘ie a ene han a a ‘Pagan ea una ee ge Dar Sa Ree matane (GOING OFF OF TORN ant mc» fowe Sine? Someoce page ees Sw yt tee ae ce yo Ci ich ng  HOUSE SITTER Responste Lien wit te cava your hne ea po ps SCs ase sega name Gate oer  oust STNG. Cn let | ERNE a 8 2-  [HOUSE CARE SERVICE ating bane pt ‘trae tus steel nt swine ‘Setngeon cop. sstan(sousaen Tce Soy deemed se senmee Copeman Cal You Rena See  {Gor WACUNE 4X CLEAN  ‘RELIABLE, RESPONSIBLE BABY SITTER Ecerreininnnes Ca Rabe ZL THRONE TEENAGER wai os  Wanted  ‘BRIDE TOBE: Newport? New? hat ‘Rove Moga Sonorsom wenger So Neon Wapenmstmur teres everyones  Ecanmameaneni Eee wang Ese  eae aot eee eae ey pron aS  SANDIA HEIGHTS BRIDGE CLUB  Join Us For Bridge!  Ladies Daytime Bridge ‘nd Monday ‘ith Wednesday 2nd Thursday 2nd Friday  Thete ae new groups forming each week. Ifyou woul! ike Yo playin any group ‘ot foun a nes pou, cll Sara Warford a 293-407 or Jue Pie at 273-9824  Couples Evening Bridge Ist Saturday 2d Sotueday ‘fh Saturday 1st Monday ad Wesesdy  tO SYNTHETIC stucco “Guaranteed Not To. Fexble Water Resta» Cob Stabilized  “58” | PROFESSIONAL 4 | REMODELING  jac Homumwners Aaeciation SHIA. THE GRIT  P.O. BOX 20021 ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87154-0021  ATTENTION HOME OWNERS: DO YOU HAVE THESE COMMON  STUCCO PROBLEMS?  + WALLS THAT ARE CRACKED, CHIPPED OR CRUMBLING + COLORS THAT ARE UNEVEN, BLOTCHY AND FADED + PARAPETS THAT ARE CRACKED AND DETERIORATED + EFFLORESENCE OR ‘LIME BLOOM’ STAINS  ALL OF THESE PROBLEMS CAN BE OVERCOME WITH  STO  THE TECHNOLOGY THAT ARCHITECTS USE FOR  ‘COMMERCIAL STUCCO CONSTRUCTION  ‘STO 1S THE WORLDS LARGEST AND OLDEST MANUFACTURER OF POLYMER BASED SYNTHETIC STUCCO PRODUCTS WITH OVER 40 YEARS EXPERIENCE IN EUROPE AND THE UNITED STATES,  STO FOR THE SOUTHWEST  ‘STO IS A STUCCO RESTORATION ‘SYSTEM THAT FEATURES SPECIAL- IZED REPAIR MATERIALS, WATER PROOFERS AND ELASTOMERIC ‘ACRYUC FINISHES, TO OVERCOME STUCCO PROBLEMS AND PROVIDE ENHANCED VALUE TO YOUR HOME.  ‘STO OFFERS THE ONLY PARAPET TREATMENT THAT IS WARRANTED TO COMPLETELY WATERPROOF THE BASE-COAT STUCCO THAT IS BELOW THE FINISH MATERIAL! THIS APPLICATION MAY BE POSSI- BLE WITHOUT REQUIRING COM- PLETE REFINISHING AND CAN PRE- VENT ADDITIONAL PROBLEMS > EXPENSE IN THE STUCCO! ROOF SYSTEMS.  CONVENTIONAL STUCCO INA CLI _TE LIKE NEW MEXICO'S WILL TYPICALLY BEGIN TO DETERIORATE WITHIN 3-5 YEARS AND NEED TO BE COMPLETELY REFINISHED IN APPROXIMATELY 10-15 YEARS.  WHY REPAIR YOUR HOME WITH THE SAME MATERIAL THAT WILL JUST DETERIORATE AGAIN?  FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT STO FOR THE SOUTHWEST, AND ESPECIALLY THE STO WATERPROOF PARA. PET TREATMENT, CALL THE FOLLOWING CERTIFIED STO APPLICATOR:  DIVERSIFIED INTERIORS - 344-4345  ‘A LICENSED, INSURED NEW MEXICO CONTRACTOR 1991-1992 ANNUAL REPORT  LEGAL ISSUES  ‘Lous Mande, 91:92 Director and Lagal Advisor  The pst 12 mouths have beea busy ‘nes forthe Legal Committe. On the poalive side, the Commitice sisted in rafing what we comiier tobe a mos] Sef covenants for two ne tbdivions (Us 8C and 23) that are slated for evelopment within the Sandia Heights Master Plan area In addtion 10 strengrncing the restrictions, the cone nants foe these new unis provide for ‘mandatory in the Associa: tom whic we heieve wil ain covenant sayortis the sey deecoped rem "The aggrewane covenant enforcement procedares which we insta las year continued and were rlainelysuceesafl ‘Over the pat 12 months 15 long term covenant wolations mete torned over to the SHHA atorney for action, Securing community voluncers to ideatify and ‘ery coneaatt olations as teen the primary obstacle to fective covenant enforcement. We are hopeful that inthe ‘coming year the Association willbe able tw allocate increased resources to cove nant inspections and support and pat ‘more of 15 energy isto correcting and preventing coverant problems fortunately, during this fiscal year the Assocation incurred igiiant egal ‘expenses as sult of being named as efesdantin two lavaits. Both ofthese lawsuits were th reat of actions taken by the SHHA.Arcitectural Review Committee in approving house plans, one foe new home contraction and 38 ‘ther tor an addton. Inthe frst await the Court determined thatthe Commi {ce had properly approved the pans. In ‘the second case the Court, aftr five days of til determined thatthe Association should be dismised from the lawsuit Even though we reece # considerable count on our lead fees, defending  laws i unavoidably expemive. In dion to the attorney’ fee incurred, invohement inlitigation took up a great deal of time for several Board members land the SHHA Executive Assan  "The Association ad more frequently, the Architectural Review Commitee receive requests, and even demands, (0 Aisapprove of file Tawa to stop con Strecion of new homes aad additions which residents say interfere with thei ‘ews of which homeowners believe ae Simply not an appropriate architectural style for Sandia Heights. As deny increates im Sandia Heights, the Uke ood also increases tha sew coestre: ‘om may iatrade onthe views from exist ling homes. The Architectural Review Committe mayeotimpropervinterfere with poops rights to develop thei propery, and it cannot legally We the ‘Covenant language “in harmogy wa he ‘general surroundings” 10 deny people ‘he right to build if their plans comply withthe basic guidelines and restrictions St forth in the covenants. There ate developments ouside of Sandia Heights ‘sth covenant restrictions that require pochio or territorial se homes. How (ver each of the 32 unity in Sanda Heights has a separate and unique set of ‘ovenants, and none directly address architectural style  Inthe pastyearasin previous year, the Association received and attempted to ‘resolve many reports of covenant vol tions. In addition, the Covenant Support, Achitectural Review, snd Legal Com: tmatecs alo received aumerows com plains and requests for asistance foe eablems and comccrns which were Nt ‘cually covenant violasons. Abhough the Assocation frequeatly provides ‘mediation services for neighbors who  belcve they have covenant problem the ‘Assocation has no jurisdiction to take ‘are of mon-covenant felated disputes Such as pet problems or trespassing Problem of this natte should be re posted to the appropriate government “Sgency sch ax County Animal Contre the Couny Shei.  “The SHHA’slewlol financial and legal involvement in the ara of architectural review and covenant enforcement is Somewhat unigee among neighborhood sociation, especialy asccations with Solumary membership. New rosdeats  ‘ak ow the Avwciaton be- ‘came involved in both ofthese areas. A ‘number of years age the Association Cmtered in a contractual agreemeat ‘sith the Sonia Peak Ti  2 restritions om boats, RV'/campers, Unused vehicles, ete. While the Associa ‘tom as no sail contract requiring hat ie prone architectural review services, tan SHHA Architectural Review Com ‘sitte was formedia July 1988 under the Suapice ofthe Homeowners Associa: tonto aceep the transference of arhi- tectural review reapomaiy from the Sandia Peak Tram Co. for 24 ofthe 32 sabvsions within Sandia Heights  Due to increasing density and ather factors, we amticipate a vise inthe peob- Jems and expenses asocated with rch tectural review. As a result the SHA Dard of Directors recently voted 0 fe cevalate its curren level of activ in eect to archtectaral review, Ifthe ‘SHIA can reduce the fands and time ‘expended (0 defend lawsuits, these sources can be pat to more prodectve ‘ues for the community.  Page  FINANCIAL REPORT ‘Ann Maro Cale, 91-92 SHHA Treasurer ‘Several noteworthy changes took place during this fiscal year in cost controls and reporting. Implementation began for ‘badgetng ty “cos centers” A cos center isa commit o activity that ia separate function or service of the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association. The implementation process was tine consuming, ince there was no historical reporting by cost ‘centers avilable fom previous years.  ‘The monthly and annual Treasurer's Reports were eahaaced to show cash receipts and dsbarsements within each cost center ‘compare tothe annual budget prepared by the Board ut the bepining ofthe 199192 fiscal year. This new reporting nt only ‘enabled the SHH Board of Directors to know where the Association stood financially but also to monitor each commite’s ‘ACTUAL results agaist their annual BUDGET,  “The sew reporting alo has made the Board more aware ofthe et costs ofeach acthity tothe SHHA. For example, most Directors were aware that Sandia Heights Park cos the Association a great deal of moe, bat few realized thatthe park took such alarge percentage ofthe net members’ dues to maintain! This was an eye opener that prompted the recent park survey.  Using the budgets and new reporting methods the Association's Board now cas focus om allocating its limited resources tothe cvs that best serve the mission of the SHEA.  FINANCIAL SUMMARY? (Cash a Beginning of Period (7/1/91) S140 Income Expenses (1/1/914(30/92)  “Total Income ‘sexs Total Expenses pak Net for Petid (7/9162) s (ss) (Cash at End of Period 16/30/82) sie  ene who woud te oe a op te compe Trees Repent for he 1991.30 yar nang ed bream of meng ed Sabrent fr ach a  (Seer oh nt dg gars may te MLA tee SMD). inte pow eo ae  DISTRIBUTION OF EXPENSES AND INCOME SOURCES:  Tempe Sen Pah Tin Co fr bigs, Page $  GOVERNMENT LIAISON COMMITTEE  cermcen lea side eects of Tramway [Blvd widening and New Development Isso the Goverameat Lisson Commi- {ce activities have heen very demanding Fortunately, most issues ocurred in - tes and ot al a once.  ‘We were able to successfully intercede withthe Countyto scare some elevation ‘edesign and modified construction oa ‘the leg of Tramay Bhd from San Rar {alto the flood control channel. This iniatve aso produced sigificat im [provements inthe design and coestroc- ‘ioe of drainage from Tramway Blvd. ‘which was fooding home Stes in Sandia Highs Units 2¢and25 west ofthe new higheay construction.  ‘When the now US. Forest Service ‘Trad #365 atthe end of Coda Hil RE. ‘ised questions and concerns trom adj eat residents about potential problems ‘with public parking alog the narrow'91- ‘y2atrets, we were abl to persuade the ‘County to instal signage to forbid park  =~ ing and protect the Hats and safety of ‘Sdeat inthe aca.  ‘Tramway Died contruction at the ‘ncadof Simms Park Road acceusint the Elena Gallegos Picnic Area posed a temporary threat to the security and safety of residents in SHHA’s Eagle  "Norm Mayer, Commi ‘District, as the trafic to the plenic area ‘was rerouted along San Rafsel, Mari ld, and Eape Ridge Rd. Bernalillo County authorities responded positively toourrequessforadded Sherif patols St shen amas w tty re  ‘Once construction was complete the (County ruled, fr reasons of emergency vehicle and APS school bus acces, ot 10 ‘estorethe gate which had formerystood atthe cotranceto Simms Park Rd. andto  sabdivsion approval for Unit 13 which ‘equred dual acess into this wit since Marigold Dr. was deemed unsuitable as anal weather acess road.  'SHHA Director and Eagle Distt Representative Janey Brink took the leadership roe in clarifing the history and also the jurisdictional and safety s- sues serrounding opcning/clonure of ‘Eagle Ridge La. forthe benefit of the 'SHHA Boardandber contitoeats. Ust 1S resident Bob Ovens ano peat mech time and effort toinsare that the interests and concerns ofthe residents in his sub vision were communicated. 10. the County andto the Asociation'sBoardof  od Stewart, 61-92 SHHA Vice President and Committee Co-Chair \Co-Chatt  Divectors  ‘The Government Lisison Commitee and SHA staff recently undertook the task of determining the possible rami ‘ations tothe Sandia Heights community ‘tthe proposed Groundwater Proecticn Policy and Acton Plan (GPPAP) and  through The GRIT newsletter. We fore- se that his wl be an onging project of  ‘A recest meeting on the proposed  tlomal se permits, This wil allow the 'SHHA tobetter keep abreast of ay now. ‘evelopmentthat mayaflect our comme sity.  ‘Changes on the SHHA Board during  the 199192 year created vacancy inthe  New Development Chait. Fortunately  other members ofthe SHHA Board of  Directors along with several concerned  Sanda Heaghtsresideats, stepped in to  ‘meet the community's neds inthe New Development area.  Legal Advisor Lou Mande and Gov-  ‘ernment Lisson Chair Rod Stewart  played Key roles im representing the  ‘Associations interests for Don Morgan's  proposed sew subsivision (Unit 8) at  the northeast corner of Tramway BI.  and San Berna, Coordination and  ‘communication among the residents in  =~ sabsdvisions adjacent to the proposed  teem Sevclopment were ably managed  ‘Marty Hil with aistance fom Ola  NEW DEVELOPMENT  Neighborhood and Association con- ‘cers centered around the size of the bts adjacent to existing development and the Proposed height ofthe homes. A com Promise was reached on theve waives and the SHHA and concerned residents are ‘working closely with Dom Morgan daring the ongoing subdivision appeal proc  od Stewart receat served asspoies- rman forthe Association i suppoting 3 ‘requested variance from the County co ‘the requtemeat for sdewalhs ia Unt 2,  soon-torbe-deveioped subdivision at the northwest cornet of San Rafac and ‘Tramway Bhd. The County Plansing (Commution responded postive othe SHELA ‘srequest tokeep Sandia Heights! ‘aural, more provinlal look and: ap- proved the variance.  Keeping abet ofthe proposed now High Desert. ‘abo has been ‘goa inthe area of New Developme ‘The proposed development comprises tome” 1000. sees between Sandia Heights and Glenwood Hill. ‘Todt, the developers have commit: {edt plating estate siz les (minimum sizeof 1/2 ace) on the boundary a> Cento Sandia Heights alongwith natural Lndcaping and minimal sect ihn Ahronghoat the entire development 12 minimize bight pion.  igh Desert bas requested Cy an- notation which brings the City immed bicly adjacent t0 the Sandia Heights communes for anpenation of Sania Het de to this devlopmest willbe analyzed bythe Board during the coming ye.  Page?  ‘TRAMWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT Mary Coton, ‘91-02 Director and Committe Chale  ‘Tofu my responsibilty s Tramway Improvemsat Charon the SHHA Beard of Director, Hao serve as Chai of the ‘Tramway Landscape Task Force. The task force, appointed by Commissioner Cassidy, represents North Albuquerque ‘Acres, Glenwood Hill, Glenwood Pointe, and Sandia Heights. Our goalis to se thatthe widened Tramway Biv, roadsides are planted withlow-water-ase plans compatible with our area. The  landscaping other than mandatory sed Jing with grasses. We are seeking the ‘seeded funds. The projects hampered ‘ecane of overlapping political ard tions: Beraaillo' County is the lead gency, hal the length of the present Project is within the city imi and the Sate will sume conto of the roadway ‘when tis complete.  Th the lat two years the taskforce as laid conidershle groundwork, We have ‘worked withthe landscape designer and the county project engineer: we have met  the Soil Conservation Servic, staff from State Forestry, staff of Alboquerque's Urban Enhancement program, and oth- cera. We comideted, but fr various rea ‘ons, were unable to submit funding ‘proposal forerosion contr Albaguet- (gee Urban Enhancement, and Small  Daquergue relases 10 accept aay new landscaping efforts that donot inclode several years f prepaid maintenance; ‘Pat Casi and ask force members have had conversations. about alternatives  for that program willbe unavailable in 1992 since the bill did ot get through the Legislature. As tak force Chair, 1 as ‘abo amember ofthe NM Urban Forest Counc which i presently developing + It of priorities i wishes to see funded. The task force is working 1 be high on that st  “The tsk force was asked in December to review landscape plans fr the xten- soa of Tramway development north of Paseo del Nave. We fel those concepts attractive and. compasible, and after iain few sgt, ed wi  ‘While we have not yet acquired any landscaping, we have kept the issveac-  ‘major fending for grading the necessary ierigation systems to get plants estab- lished, and fr planing. Once those are secured, wesilexpect task esidests of ‘our areas to “buy plant or Tramway.”  Board of directors Meetings ‘2nd Wednesday of Every Month ~ 7:00 p.m. Paseo del Norte Fire Station  1991-92 SHHA BOARD OF DIRECTORS:  Sandia Heights owes deb of gratitude tothe following members ofthe comme: tity andthe Association who donated 30 ‘many hourstothe work of preserving ad  Iemproning oat neighhorhood, aster Pewee corre ae sen secu Commi Se Jot eter eer Dats Rep ‘Rel Pr Sane ening age Date Rep Joe Catt Arter Rees ee Cosa Arc Reiee ‘See bare tap Mey oe remnant Rab Freeman Aaecura Rees Hee toring conan Spot Mont Dats Rep Noman Sayer overeat Lito (Ona Dar ap. ea Once per atic Rep be Tene ‘Pass Dear Rep Ania Visonic Artec Reser ‘Coser Dat ep, Soe Wasnt Coven Sopot ea wnine at Becee ne Oat Dest Rep Tom Wray Yo Dc ep, ames Wreseery ara Re  ae erat  eater Dat Rep  Lower interest rates brought on a del ge of architectural submits for new home consiraction, home addsions/ ‘renovations and smaller home improve ment projets such as walli/lences, chs, swimming poo ete  ‘During. 19132 the’ Commitee re- sowed and approved plans for 25 new homes and 13 additions. This was more ‘than double the umber of homes and aons reviewed during 1990-91. ae  ‘The SHHA Board was contacted by, th Sandia Peak Tram Co. in March 1992 ‘regarding the proposed transference of architectural review responsbiliies for Unit 20 fromthe TramCo. tothe SHA. ‘This would bring the total umber of ssbdvsions under the control of the SHHA Committe 1025. Seren subd  “Heights Maser Pan area. A jot effort ‘cathe pat ofthe SHIA staff and resi ‘ents in Unit 20 to amend the Unit 20 ‘covenants and. proside for mandatory membership i ongoing, with transfer nce othe architectural cview respon ‘bilities for this subdivision il pending  Many ofthe problems and issues faced bythe Architectural Resiew Committee <aringthe pas 12 months are covered by ‘Legal Advuor Lou Mande in the Legal ates section of hie Anal Report  RECYCLING BUI Hefin. 01°02 Director areé Commitee Co-Chair Janey Brink, 91-82 Director and Commitee Co-Chair  Recycling as become a part of the ties of Sandia Height’ residents. The HFA Reoying Program earned 999 {rom recytabes during the 1991 92fscal eat. The funds ae being held in reserve {for donation to 2 woethy commenity improvement projet, with some consid ration being’ gen to the Tramway Landscaping Prec.  Hours of eallection were reduced to beoween a. and Iam. othe forth Saturday of every month Deus the Deate company that receives the mate= lfm the Cy of Albouerge tracks ‘decided o cheat | pan on Saturdays ‘Our collection hours were redved to sirethe reckstimeto unload nape of the redeced hour, eolletions have re Imained tong We wet appined to learn that the iy cou o lange take ‘own, peen or char gan, beau the Dwite compas) woul so loge take  the Recycling Commits, since Bill fin competed his 3-year term on the SHEA Board. Regeln volunteers are always needed o help keep up the good  Grady, Bill Stabler, Bye Gamby, “Marguerite Cackley, Lous Miko, Mi chael Carlon, Vitoria Burch. George lars, Arold Ronncbock, Lynda Burch, Joycelyn Wallace, Joan Wilkes, Marty Hill Pat Johasoa, Sezanse Lear Jenny Vanetsy, James Grossman, Lacy Grin- ley (Girl Scouts), Sam Besoahave, Korea Kram,  ‘COMMUNITY SERVICES Usa Stawar, 01°02 SHHA Secretary ‘and Committee Chair  “The work of the Community Serves ‘Committe centers around progras ‘welcome and acclimate new resideats ‘the Sandia Heights community and pro- ‘mote community spirit  ‘The monthly SHHA Community Col fees during 1991-92 were onganized by ‘Beth Stall. Thanks tothe efforts ofBeth ted the SHHA members who hosted caflees ia theit Bomes both new and old” residents ofthe commanity were ailoeded a regular opportunity to get together and get acquainted.  ‘The Associations welcome ters and ‘comprehensive new resents packets, tuted by many new residents as one of ‘ar mon usta services, were prepared ‘and mailed bythe SHA staffto 196 new ‘residents inthe Sandia Heights commu ‘iy during the past 12 months.  ‘The annual Holiday Barase for 1991, spomioredby the SHEA tobenefi neigh ‘orboodartists and our Distt SCounty ‘Volunteer Fire Department, bad to be canceled du to new Count rales pov cerning ese of Coumty Fire Stations for fundraising activities. Bazaar Chair Lacy ‘Russll and members of the plansing ‘committee have found anew cation or the 1992 Bazaat ata Roger Smish model home off Tramway Bh  ‘Tae Homeowners Referal Program, under the administration of Director ‘obs Beeder snd the SHHA Executive ‘Assistant, continued to be one of our ‘most popular member services. Now feferrals rom SHIA members on con- traciors/service providers are submitted ‘ona rogular bass, Keeping the referral file up-to-date and proving acxclient source of information for our member ‘An average of 10 calls per week are recenedto aces informatno contained inthe fle.  "The Sandia Heights'*VivaLaDiferen- da” tshits ae stil a favorite among residents and an be purchased anytime {om the SHA office or annually athe ‘Spring Fling pica andthe Holiday Craft Bacaw.  