Votume 92 May 1D amber 2  Public Forum Raises Questions And Concerns About Groundwater Pollution And Protection  Some 10 concerned property owners Water Utliies Division from Sandia Heights and Noh ABu- Gaume’s forty minstc presenta tad ome primary message ‘|  matali ‘id tbe all arabes into secant. A omen seemed tbe reached on coe poset The member ofa  ‘While the protection measures pro  The Sukis Arua rottobe massed. momoryamaking Spang Fg Pienic. Pst ne Scary ar 0 Sana ha PON. ee Cre et ros es crema  SHHA ANNUAL MEMBERS’ MEETING  Saturday, June 6, 1992 10:00 a.m.  Paseo del Norte Fire Station 11700 Paseo del Norte NE  ian to attend thi inportant meting, flowed immedi ‘See page 2 for more tnformation a annul meeting and  Sandia Heights. Homerwners. Prociation  bythe Spring Flag a raced nso det  ase  “Grit | necurannama cares dieaee ve a  eprve ‘Sherry Lomas 1301 Encantado NE  Albuquerque, NM 87123, ae  PUBLISHER: MICRODATA inc «fo Harry Crch  Bridge Cid. Bolla Board Commanity Coffees — Gait Creulaion Grit Deadline Groundvater Poliion — Kip Nel) neon ‘Non-Commercial Aik Pat Candy et Problems Recyelieg ‘Security Pata Septi System Care ‘SHHA Annaal Meeting 1 SHHA Board Mowing.  SHA Directors Needed Spring Fling onc Sim Team Trafie Sales) Tramway Boolvard  ‘View from Jack Rabbit Hil Wildover Clb.  Call For SHHA Board Nominees  A Nominating Committee for the Sans Heights Homeowners Association (SHILA) Board of Dizecors hs bees appointed, 2d the committees now secking ominces and soliciting candidates to serve year ttm onthe SHH Board of Diresiors  [Nominating Commitee members ae Janey Brink (201-8910), Robin Oxten (298 248), and Anne Vegas (2942107),  ‘Theannsal members moctng und election forthe SHHA Board of Directors will bboheldon Saturday, June at Hamat the Passo del Norte Fite Station, 1700 Paseo delNorte NE. The annual meeting wl feature biafrepots by each commie hair ‘on atsties throughout the past 12 months, aswell 2 a ept by SHMA Treasurer ‘Aan Marie Cale cn income and expencres for hs fic year. Nomination and ection of sow Board members wil immediately fallow  ‘This is your annual laiation and epportunity to get atively iavolved in the <eciion-making body cfthe Sandia Heights Homeowners Asocation. Members of ‘the SHHA Board of Directors are elected fem among the active members of the ‘Assocation, All residents (homeowners teens) and crmers of vacant propetics whose membershipdvcsare yao dat at elipleiovete andtoserve onthe Board accordance wie by lays athe Association. one votes permitted per residence or property. However, no acive member is eaed to east more than One Vote regardless ofthe mumber of properics owned  Members of the Board of Director at cleced for three-year terms a plurality vote ofthe active members who aiend the snaual mecting, Hoard members are ‘equiedo attend monly meetingson the second Wednesday ofevery month a the firesuaion om Pasco del Nore. Direcors mus alsoscrve cider as am ole of he Assocation, asan ative member af one ofthe Assocation commits (Reeling. Member Services Paris & Recreation, Covenant Support, New Development, Architectural Review, Government Lsivon, Tramway Improvement), or sadist. representative, Offices of the Bousd ~ consisting of a Presdeat, Vice President  lected bythe Dieectoes atthe fst meeting following the snval members mectang  yo, or someone you know, is interested in serving our community in this very Jmponant role, please coutact one ofthe Nominating Commitee members listed ove or the SHIA oie (27-9112) by Pray, May 29.  Evcaiyoucant be imoledn regular bassin the programs and actitisof your Ihomevaners association, please tke the vee wo come and eas our ballot for the ‘neighbors tat you feel will best represen your interests in th Sandia Heighs ‘commanty, Then join your friends and neighbors forthe anaual SHHA Spring Fling Penicat Sadia Heights Pak immedatey folowing the anosal mecting (sce Spring Ping of hse)  “Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world...  indeed, it isthe only thing that ever has."”  “Margaret Meade Are You Thinking About Selling Your Home?  You DIDN'T BUILD YOUR PORTFOLIO BY WORKING PART-TIME. Wuy RISK  MANAGING IT THAT WAY?  ‘th aur Clo so pert agra ~  1 Call Vince Yegge at 265- 5561  (Wet sat by hing yoo dine pci at Pat ection. Thet we aes aed  ri i mon re . — SHE FARS( N  Nod ree sme yo pas  picamateaopecageri, | =~ BROTHERS:  6 Million 1991 Sales ne of TOP TEN Realtors in Albuquerque Sandia Heights Resident & Neighbor  5) 298-1600 294-7619  VOTE FOR BUSINESS. Tom State & AGAINST TA.  enate JOIN THE FIGHT AGAINST  ray THE COMING INCREASE IN DISTRICT “21 YOUR PROPERTY TAXES!!!  + Sandia Heights resident since 977 HELP STOP WASTEFUL  . ryt psa Engineer ‘¢ee208  + MBA(U) 1) E (Cl ‘hoard Member-sandiaicights HELP EXPAND JOBS IN Homeowners Association THE PRIVATE SECTOR!!!  Remember to VOTE on Tuesday, June 2nd! Don't let others decide for you!  Paid for by Wray for State Senate, Nancy Cooper, Treasurer  oN ‘urd 1-000N  ok 6-9) TIVEASVE vo u  wea  Buijy, Fudge VHHS  pars re 7661 '9 Sung Mepames  Page  18 Haveyou turned you Sandia Heights Park survey? Ho please take a moment tofnd the Bight yellow postcard ocstionnane, mower the questins and op athe mall Ress willbe reported inthe nex wsbe of The GRIT.  ' A fewdediated men and women ate needed Bop with some annua chores at Sanda Heights Park. A park work (party has been scheduled for Saturday, May 16 ftom 910 11am. Tass wil range from mince clean-up actities torcbulding the raoad tie wall athe northeast cod of tn park. Bring shovel, hammer, wheelbarrow ete. Call SHA Parks & Recreation Direcoe Fd Whitten at 26-1884 for information oF jst show up.  18 Due toa change inthe cllecion hour tthe Cy’ recycing caer, the Sandia eights Recyting Program oom sccives materials fom anf 11 am, oxthe fourth Saturday ofeach month atthe Quail Ron Center, 12700San Katach Recycling Saturdays forthe nest thee noms are May 2, June 27, and July 28. The Sandia Heights ‘Recycling Comite can no longer accept gas (clear or colored) sine there current are no utes that accep ‘Bass for reacting. rsa iterested in oining the Sanda Height recycling efor should contact Sancy Brink at ‘Bis,  {© THANK YOU!THANK YOU! al ofthe conscientious residents who so gulch screesed thei air comioning ‘equinment and/or paired ther Basketball goa What community pide and spr!  1 State congresional re-dstricting has dived Sandia Heights into two separate districts for the State House of ‘Reprcanlatines isi 3 epresentedby Kip Nicely and Distr 23 prevented by Mark Caruio. Bothol these ‘incumbents ave uncontested inthe upcoming primary aod pracral lectins. The diding fine between the dts ‘sthe San Bernadino Channel with al resalets aor ofthe channel in Dist 23 and all eens south of the ‘anpel in District 31. See Senate districts have nt changed and neither hare te voting precincts. ll Sans ‘Heighs resients wl vote atthe County District 5 Fire Station, 11700 Pasco del Note NE.  "A Spring cleanup reminder: Allbrash and weeds mest be boxed bagged, or bundled fr regular refuse pick wp ‘yy Sanda Heights Services Avrangements for petal pick ups ean be made by calling 296-9848. There willbe mo ‘efus collecion ow Memorial Day. Monday, May 25. Residents a the Monday pick wp schedle wil hve thei refuse collected on the following dey.  The adi High Ht Cra ac,» radio many ps int commn, i scocing ot nc anno: vahsca Peron Shane opus cao and ateoba se erste isting thet work th ba sel oat Rae DENS,  1 ayes a iy eri the mary lhe cms rns with dn edna cn rcedtact tox aprbod cena ee tape aaa crcnan teapot the Pact seers onus mig halen och sor ing pall omarion ‘Sati facing tuhig ot ptt Dae ving dnemsig te Hy eupet Sua High Pat yon wet finan or nese pes Uewee ee Conmy Sian Sins He Sey Par  1 The Send eigen Cb simi poi cede peo May Dane Bait a icd i Fou Semens Ch mike act Teh van hn ht sts pet ore cae pig Snr Calves 7s Wot mae man Te tn an sit ec saa Open ome vibe Ossi My and cote wh spad Dron Moni Mn Assn eco Fr Secs ‘menlrsandsoumenten ered ocome ay i in sd ces cl ng ope bo eee. Cats (oT formation how Fur emo Chas membre and Sc  18 The second Sandia Iasi Notional Hang Gliding Compton wil aunch from Sandia Crest on Suoay, Jane 7 sad contac though Jue 1, Some 0 pis foes throughout the nlhon wil participate inthe competion which issanatiooed bythe US Hang Gling Assacation. The Sanda Highs Homeowners Assocation has contacted the coordinators ofthe event who sai that some afte plots (weather peemiting) would do some ight off he rest doing the Spring Fling Pai at Sandia Heights Park on Sturdy, Jone 6 (ce Spring lig insert in this ise fox more deta), Sevctal mcs daring weeklong competion, the ik willbe landing aa designated landing one in Elena Gallop Pak and parking thir veils at the area bide the par’s OUP sie  “THE GRIT" ADVERTISING RATES  ‘Sommer tensa ings Hence  gt 0p  pi MAX SANCHEZ... s.... Wy YOUR BEST CHOICE  . ‘Sad teghts as a superior aemave . {onda ete sale Max Soc ‘Smet one ot Albaguergaes op ten [rode teamed wh the renee Pareag, Rely llr you Real Fste exper an ear of expenece Max Sanches Wes in Sandia Heh, loves Seda Haigh 20 knows the terior ike twas hes backyard ~ became ot biclnand For psweal serie nd be sword wang seh all x when ou buy or sl in Songs Max Sance the Sanda Heights Specie I PARNEGG  ofce:se023n1 sa eden 295-818  Residents Promote Traffic Safety  numberof Sandia Heghs residents bling (0 enforce trafic ls inthe ane pursing the nsltion estat commana rei ‘cal Tit ack wie oo Tramoay should wach fr tins sichas ey Bird north of Moetgomery to Heht trcks (pariah 18 sbeces) which twocksoexceding Som TheSHHA ae pebbite fm denang co Tammany tho's checking into acighborbood con Bhd, speing/eckics ming nad term sbout the potently cceuie cacenie whic soe ling a intestine, Callie aoe emergeny nantes tthe  The Bera County Shri offce County Sherif fice CHe-4t0) to istesponible for esfreng speed limes. repet proms. Be preparedto pee om the portion of Tramway Bh hase rach informa a pose the foesthrough SundiaHcphs Hower, problems pent altr several dy, 3 Serie depuis ate thinly spread Sntsmay alter Capa Dan How Uhoughout alarge gvgrphic aca, aed ton or Licstnunt Nortert Montoya ‘esdem an ply am mportan rien T8471,  Max Sanchez, MBA ‘Asoc Boer  NI re i  8 ¥0  R  fl  pa  Deadline for the August "Grit" The deadline for subenting ath, a ‘sodieformarion forthe Avguat sie of The GRIT s Wednesday, ly 1,  109.” Pease sabmit all marl Sherry Loman, 16201 Escantado Rd  IF, Allwquergue, NM 87123, 2750112 verter boul ote dita pace ited and f reserved om fir come,  Firs served basis, Payment mst sm any ad spe reservations.  “Grit’ Circulation “This haus of Tae Ges wanmailedtothe 3 members of the Sandia Heights  Hosicowsers Association  Community Coffees ect new scighbors and see “old” ends at he community coffees. Mark our cakndar and notify our hestes if ot plan to attend so that she can pl  ‘seoeding. Call Beth Stoll at 2-480  yo woul ke ohase wate oF ifyou  teed tide. Everyones welcome!  Wedesday, May 2,10 am-12 2008 the bome of Miriam Frieda "4 Paathewh Dr. Bese  Wodesday, June 10, 10m-12 2008  ‘the home of MaryJo McCarthy 191 Big Hor Ridge Ci Des  Wednesday Jay 1,10 am-12 non  at he home of George & Bonnie Hight  ‘4 Live Oak Lp. maasTs  Special thanks to Michele Benedict ab Preman, and Safe Drennan who  owed oor oflers ia February, March, and Apri.  [ SendaHegts | Homeoaners Assocation mcm | ‘2nd Wednesday of Each Moath 700 pm, | Paseo del Nore Fite tation Everyone Welcome! |  (00 20.909  Naney S Eckert  i narncePare 8 nda  ‘cog Na TE  One  Ana Marie Cale Cafe Pb Account  Income Tax Panning Income Tax Rete, | Bounce Comming  Bootteeping Fioanca Stoeents  293-1049  ont yaetoop XE Abeer  Judi's Studio (608) 296-4567 FREE LANCE BeTERIORS  + METALLIC LEAF PAINTINGS * SILK DESIGNS  Judi Foster, Owner 28 ips CLE, Albert NM 57122  INTERIOR PLANT SPECIALIST  BS  rsa — pee  Ron Lane 2er-9a64  SHARON'S HOME CLEANING  Quolty Clearing With A Special Touch (0) Corng That You Con SEE and FEEL  ©  Sas Cee GALCes Lexus "THOMAS NUNNALLY  305) 383-8800 Home: 275-163 1-2008.1951 (401 Sex Mato NE + Abaquengue, NM $7109  Picture It Framed  FINE CUSTOM FRAMING AND ART.  PALS  Pe  Dea for Property And Land Services ne CHARLES FRACE Tn aaa ie BT uve causny Sy) mE tet &  Ge LJ The Vaughan Comy C7 The Vaughan Company  SURE Atco ome  ‘Tom Wray  Groves/ Wray  GASSOCIATES  Pose Ate aE Pine ST Sea  GRACE LUTHERAN CHURCH  “you will find me. when you seek me with your whole heart” (Jer. 19.13)  Sunday School: 10:85 (Mersery Available)  On Eubank Just South of Paseo del Norte (823-9100)  Page  | Sandia Heights | In The Swim...  i] Si for 1992 Swim Team already y. pasta might.and a dance atthe end } Security Report |) su'sn'"rhe snus regu sin Wessaan  | Teamtopeatoyeth tom age Sto 8 Denne Bazi, Au Bet, and hoefurcsar member fiefs! Guyeles compte er etang  Do your part to preserve and main |  tain Sandia Heighs sa sae and || Sesons Clb. Salt Thetcambas fs home wim meet ||secure lac ote by staring Sod sic vay mets scheduled, wh he | he Sanda Heys Scearty Parl. Intected swimmers ae invited 1 pretminaris and sin Hal sched  | Callthe Sandia Peak Tram Co.(26- || come and jon inom the summer fan for aly2577. Fst om mectis June 10. 19585) for information ‘on security || Team spomors bane planned a vdeo For more information, cll Lisa a he  ||srves and succes || move nigh tthe pods pez party Four Seascas Cab Oi (25-0738) famburpe cookout, role Sating Guy Sele at 21-6852 and 27500, | Sandia Heights | Scary Prt Cats |) sary Mardy 92 County Commissioner Distt 4 | Vote for Ed Cassi Vest te for ass i —_ + 30 years in Personnel/Compensation at |e ee Sandia National Laboratories | Const She Beha” + MBA — Northwestern University —— + 25 years Active Republican | State ————— | bain De. Knows the area, Knows the issues |iteeerw 7 Only candidate 30 ycar resident of District 4 | Fenty Dip =  “Lam not ranning ander her hat.” {ask for your vote and suppor.  Eset fares ater men te Cy a  Speatng Ve  Sie Ana Sram Petes |)eeaete ——  Do you have a quality Sandia Heights lot that you would sell for cash?  ite Aaa Sara Howns (Fore). Sct Pain  ‘We have out-of-state customers for ‘custom homes and need several lots.  Bec wise  | roraveaus  &  | CALL PETE OR HERSHEL - BRUSHWOOD HOMES, INC.  econ APD Cte Asis pe hia  a Anna tem et erlang tl mpc  | BAUSHWOOD HOMES  | | L  Page 10  ‘Groundwater Pollution  Contd fom page 1 noes would be required to isa low ‘how plumbing fitres ard en alcen tive, or aon blackwater dichanging, waste diposal xem Blackwater Is waste from aliquid Oushing tlt, urinal, ‘or gabe disposal. The bl rina tion of analteraatve system coal ran at high a4 $700 over crrea conte to nal ‘sconveatonal spc yea, not inclad- Inge requied test and permis wich some predict could ke very expemie.  ‘Orher key pots inthe plan cal for sever eapensen though creation of Special Aswoument Districts, cllecion of annual fees from owsers of ening epic tems, dedicated propery or gross recipts taxes to support the  ‘ete iy Comal ond ord of Coy adoption by January 1993,  “The bos for stringeat contel of o> site wastewater disposal stems is to technical studies and reports by CHM Hill a eagincering firm contracted to serve as techaical constant to. the ‘Groaadwater Policy Coordinating Cox  te. The first stody and report, “Vulecrabity of Bernailo Couty ‘Ground. Wates Resourcer (May 1990), assesses the probeblevulerabiy ofthe srowndwoter resources in diferent areas ‘of Bernall Coanty base on seven fe- tors depth to groundwater surface ‘water fom rivers aad arrsos ths dase ‘othe groundwater below; aquifer media (sands/gravel/rocks) from which the  ‘groundwater is pemped type and thc ‘ess of oll med topogzapey, naare cf ‘Bateralbereece the sal ancgrouads- ter, hyde condwcinity (how ea ‘ids cravelthrooghdiflerest meta). “The second report, “Threat Charsc  ‘eration Report” (June 1980), snaljzes ‘the potential for septic tank to release ‘contuminass into’ the groundwater ‘sed on eatimoter of amounts of i= ‘hargedwaste. The echnical reports and ‘GPPAP are availabe for review at five area ibrariesincladingthe Albuquerque Main ibrar at 5h and Copper acd the Wyoming Regional Library at S205 ‘Apache NE. Coraments maybe seat 19 the Geoundwater Policy Coordiating Commitee, P.O. Box 129%, Albuquer- pe NM ITIOR,  GPeAP and sosated programs, creamed ees tad expended permit te {prement or lation of ternative  ‘ate poral ten and taney papoose a  Ics anual (seine Api 52 itoe ofthe PEAK REVIEW erroe- comay reported» requiremcet for ‘meth pump)  "The dat ofa cw Berit County Ligeld Waste ‘Ordnance, which as doropedto ting the rans ine ‘wih theGrousdwater Presa Pele, ‘as became the mon controversial ot toda. The erdmance son el for ‘the inallation of shernatve syste io sew comtrocon bat abo in exing Homes when he conventional eptes seed ep an Co tstnates for cling an sting ie foranatrnae gow oes ‘ih ligt tat 3700 lg ptm there. Tose ctimaes eat Ince eapems he purchasing se Sling tw-Bow patting ers nd fox purging te eign fe os tines ayear.  ‘Pac cppston othe drat Liga Waste Ordnance was pet hal ithas then tied indie. Tig to ap rove and implementa new ig waste Sane Delore the py ud con tan were append wee pting te fart Blore then, sed. Coy CCommisione Patria Casi. GPPAP  inthe pac npt sage pri fo the repatooncfathin da an cial  Proper Septic System Care Makes Environmental And Economic Sense  Ecdnos Note: Sept stems are te primary mao of west dpesal in Sar ‘ia Heights Ofte seme 1600 residences ‘nthe conananty, apprasinatey 1,00 households havea sepec tank and drwin- [ld sometere on thes prope If yo ‘rin don af whether you have seer Senice or « sec system, please cll Sanda Meigs Services (296-958) for ‘infomation.  “tlavon pumped myseytictankinthe 10yeara ve lived Sanda Heights, ad ‘esnever Svenme ait of trouble, SoF leave well enough alone.”  Many Sandia Heighs resides have cither heard or spoken these same, oF similar, woeds many ties. The fact is tha sep tanks that area purged os regulary may force eflucat at of the ‘underground septic tank aad ino the raintc before the tal’ Bacteria had ‘suffieat time 9 do thet work. This increases the chance of dispersing insu Scicuy treated eluent nto the draia- field and raisesthe possibilty that hare falcontaminansmaybercleasediatothe soil and eventually reach the grounda- ter  Another common misconception that reglar pusping may bare the bal- nec ofbaccraia the ankand create the ced for more frequent pumping or even cawsesjtem fadare Actual, mt pump Ingat the tank fequeatyecoogheante  1 primacy case of sytem failure and ‘houssnds of dollarin repairs. The worst patie the absonce of ony warning sigas teforethe system ais, Sodon't make the mistake of presuming that a property fanetioning sytem means that the tank doesnt need tobe pumped out  ‘Basi Sept Tank Chemistry Allthe wastewater frm your hows ceived bythe net tank, When quid [ndsole wastes enter the tank the Bae- ‘crn that ein the tank se the organic rmatriaias food. The. tre proce ‘heir oom wastes which ae most inor- ‘nic materials that canbe wed a food ‘yplast and animal organisms normaly ‘preset inte ok  “The bacteria docs't eat everthing that comesino the tanks there's aslo sccumlation of slit material “= or SBidge~ atthe tom of the ark. This isthe sepage tht must be pumped owt regularly to keep your septic ster perting propery  Drainfeld Operation ‘When ew wastewater is ceived by the seictank forces the fcr thats ‘been nthe tank forthe longest period of {ine into anal pipe whichleadstothe <ainfeld. How lag the flaca stayin ‘he tank fore ping ito the drach ‘depends onthe Size of tank, the amount  Page 12  Fenty tolled cf wastewater te tank este andthe fount of sa accumu a he ttm of he tank  “The rin rcs the water fe fen that weft ole pe athe seca, Lang preted pes ‘rink wernt pave ch Sreborediabngtnches Tefen ‘cputvoghthepaelandino the sol where kh wen by being red rh the sal pices a shee he ‘rena nly preset athe sl ‘vor a porto fhe ctr  ‘Slode/Scam lnspection  ‘Septic tas shoul be inspected once «8 yete to monitor the accumlaticn of Scum and Judge. Wheel ofthe capac ity ofthe tank i taken up by slid if time to pump the tank. For afc, septic tank pomping services wll perform an inspectionforyou. Flloing aeinsrac- ‘ions fr condveting your own scum and sige inspection  ‘To meavure the scum accumulation, naa thee iach square Hock (0 pole sod poke the block through the scum layer. Carefully move the poe up and down to fete resistance a you move Ucblock up aganathe ttm surface of the scum layer. Mak tha place om the  pole whichis eve wih he pround. Then Feel around fr the boston ofthe out Pipe and mack that selon the pole. If the wo maths are thre laches of bess, pan, your tank aceds tobe pumped out ‘New, wrap an olf towel around the ‘otioo ofthe pole and fasten with string or ape, Pash omel doit ‘ebottom ofthe tank nd ilar Several times. Mark the pole at ground level. After a minute os, pall the poke ot and measre the distance between thetop ofthe ade ayer the op othe ‘black material onthe towel and the bo ‘om f the ote pipe). this tance is twee inches ores, your tank needs to ‘be pomped ont  ‘Don Abuse Your Septic System! ososing. Many household items if used excenively can poison your septic system including drain cleaners, tle bowl cleaners, and other chemicals marked “Polioa” or “Cami”. Exon beach can came problems, atbough small quittes wed in washing ma chines ould e harms. Another potential poison thst ed inrogen eating water ulleners,  ‘Choking Another tiagthat should b> voided in adding soli fo the tank that anect be deccesposed by the hacer. Newspaper, pape towels, rags and ot  ‘ee ound ail acumalatc and cee the pipes core you to hare you tank romped mae freq Dasening Exess water can lead 10 problems ad alae of the anh the Sint, Bosurethatpluminng ures fre operating crteth- Even leaking {tet ots dosha offre crater shige case ss fa Se do oes wate, Surtae runat ‘hat aint the tak ade roots ‘a aho came the stem 0a. Salaing Be vey sure wher your ‘gwen drab is heated Belo andi ot ling enemy pation pot ck, enn courts cle Deans eqere omen ofancon rope and nv ncopermcabic material ontop othe ‘el apa, comet) wilatorat the sem ‘crashing tyouparchocds home shat was pono acupied by fone Feopk orike nomber of people your Noa hs increased fran reason Sow s2ay acd to elarg th the tank and ‘rife. Calla compan) ht speciale izes septic tnk installation ada itjoutne doulas abut the aeguay of Jour sic stem ‘On: fal war: Abas beware of magician advertised rea: your Spc stem bu which come with no rehaie pura!  WANTED: Responsible Pet Owners  Many pt lovers inthe Sandia Heights ‘eommuaiy y's ot the dog and eats that ate creating the problems. i the inespomible pet ovners  ‘Notenlyisit against Count ordinance {wallow your dogs and cas to rau the neighborhood and create messes and ‘nunancesonCouniyrighto way and/or ‘on other people's prope, bat t's alo wsanitary amd incomiderate. Persons ‘who take thei dogs out walking/ogging ‘andthe all them 10 create messes i Yyacds, on the right-of-way, ors Sandia eighas Park are abo crcting a heakh Iharard and suns,  “Another particular prob isthe cats who use the td and wile habitats i ‘ther people’ yard for their Buating ‘grounds. Not only this very datrbing feetesdeas bo ae iatrencd in creat Jing and protecting wildlife habitats on  tele property, but i als infringes ergs, The old “ies jan iting” and “balance of suture” arzemcet sim iy dou’ Bold water for someone who Finds a covey of babs qual in thee yard ‘as teen lle by the negors a Residents who are experiencing pet problems are urged to call County Ani- ‘malContrl(87%6706). Fessonswho fa to comply with the Coustys Animal ‘Control Ordinance may te fined up 10 S800 per destance that they are found is ‘olan ofthe ordinance. Thsineudes problems wihbarking howling dogs and petsthat are not restrained on leash ‘confined oa their own premises. Gentle rap ao can be ented fora womial ee from Cows Animal Control or Acoma PetCeateron Wyong Ble (258.3991) vo caput eoaming cats sd tra thee ‘ver ¥o County Animal Contr  Wildflower Club  Mark your clea fo the ea thi ‘sen garden tour which sso fr June 13 from 9 am. to 12 00,  ‘Chub ncnbors have developed acom prchensive Bt of recommended ground overs tres an shrubs forthe Sandia rights area. The lit inches a brief scription ofeach tem, inching their ‘rater requirements SHA member, ‘ho would ke Wo recene a fee copy of ‘the recomended plat Tit for Sania Highs shoul cal the SHHUA fice 2159112) I the phoae machine am ‘ers snp state that you would ike ‘copy ofthe plat and leave your same ‘and malig addres.  For moe information oa sub activi tie, call Be Grady at 275-0754. Ann dub dacs arjust 5a yar, andeveryone is welcome to join. Don't wait until you are the victim. |  PROTECT YOUR LOVED ONES 2 AND PROPERTY WITH THE | ATsT WIRELESS SECURITY/FIRE SYSTEM  CALL 265-6212 NOW... |  s.FOR A NO OBLIGATION SECURITY |  SURVEY AND DEMONSTRATION OF THE \  AT&T WIRELESS SECURITY SYSTEM BY ONE OF q ‘OUR LICENSED SECURITY CONSULTANTS  seems wivden'you”  BuRSE 1 ELECTRONICS | 18 Manzano NE sesgeresomer | “eee |  Sandia Heights Residents  von eter  = Pee) aes cass Ns as aera BODY & PAINT “wars  266-7343 SBE cows  £8506 TRUMBULL SE (Just Outside Wyoming Gate)  Bring this AD and receive 1596 discount on all sheepskin products.  QUALITY AUTO DETAILING Serving Alouguerque since 1982 ‘Wayne & Sharon Baughman snugusaerszzcstenysacsssttaernne  Page 13  ring Alongs “There i again pled up agains the faces clogging th Sain taking 708d ‘ses pil wall along =i the pest. ‘oF the West, tummblowed. H's x0 fa roing sousiversal wo ichytopulout, ‘operate that inthe ead itimay Bethe ‘egwinner ofthe bate between anand “The gas companscamethnoughSsadia Heights lst year and everyuere they ‘went there sa tremendous crop of tam blewced and/or kochia The gas com ‘any dtiflly seeded grama pass, but it Hadlde chance someone didn get id  ofthe pesky weeds firs. Almost every ‘plo of disturbed grovad in our area wll roduceabumpertumbleweederop with ‘litle moitare, Thats no wonder, a tumbleweed produces ypiothre= milion seeds enough tocorerasguate mie all ‘were ove and enough 1 cover al the US bythe third yea (This mot-reasat- ing figure is taken from Sara Stein's charming ad etalled book My Wess)  Fortunately fo ws far athe seeds ‘naren'tmanaped to grow at once, but ike many cedstheycanremaininthegrousd for man, many years before the ehance ies to germinate. Often when some ‘on tsp the ground to plat what he ‘thinks wil torn ou to te a beaut ‘garden, the tumbleweeds are the fist thing up and ousrp all else. Exper- need gardeners water their garde sail afteturning ake oath weeds and then plat their andes  Tambleweed, asaciated 10 deeply  cr prpestriped stems wth pines and egy een aerate thin, leaves when Young Tnoduced a well bat mo wt ome aes cousin i he Gossett {ami Rechin (ou know theft ‘seed that amet ook ike + Cestnas tree on the new grading of Tramway, Iontsquarer ad neta gomcfot Marcin sng mths gore pase ‘xc ers incing Louw Sk ash and  “Tumbcweed cam be costlied with atin, Catchitabouthreinchesbigk Insping and we tina ot niche ‘hanes er iinach: New Mean Hispaics sed these qulgs in the Sing thw nq he  "To reduce is seed productos, the weedcanbecuttuckifthre spotimeto take sal eat. Bersih gro out fore it ste sed And # yo thik  ling tambleweed ia bof work onside that you mit be ving some store youmowed las and ca ears ‘Ser Spring and Sort ween  eon Hef  Nicely To Represent House District 31 Through 1994  Eaters Note: The Sandia Heights ‘comunity no's separated no Sate Huse of Representatives Diseices~Dis- ties 31 and 2 Sond Heights Resident Ky Nie, te incumbent Sate House ‘Duvet 31 isnconested the upcoming _promary and peneral lection. Incuabent Mark Casoaioisunconsested dhe 3p- coming eectons forthe Disc 23 set.  Legis By Kip Nice, State Representing, Howse District 3  Its tine oace again to update youn ‘apse form, on the results ofthe as legslative session and a soak pre- view of things that maybe coming ou wim. Before I do, a reminder to all ‘ies of Sanda Heighs that re- ‘iting bas heen approved ad many of you are cow in Distt 23 for dhe State House of Represeaatves.  ‘nthe poe sie there were several decent ts wothy of note. One, which  Inaly looked lke “more government” ‘bu in realy wil probaly be excellent forall izes, Fest Lady Alice King’s project foe 4 mow cabinet agency for families and youth. Wi consolidates see- ealagenciesimoune,andeyeahybetis thai wi be a winses. Secood. a all och sponsored wil gradual (based ‘on cata conditions) reduce the gress ‘eceips tat for veseacch and develop. ‘mers companies, finaly eiminating the Caxttallyby 199), This a great incem- tive ot aly foe oer inate high tech ‘ommpanicsbut oot frm we ar yg to recruit. Thi, bil which wil be 3 revival of FDR's program ofthe Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). designed as 2 Youth Conservation Corps. His well ‘erutured and shoul, = minim, paral ansnct 1 ur ever-growing gang problems.  ‘Naturally there were peblems during the session oo, and Tatouch on afew of thong Pork bare poet landing r= ‘marily in Albuquerque's South Valley,  ave once again jeopardized public ‘chen andecep bung fonds plac {ing the school capital projects and main- tenance match behind the pork projets  the guarancod funds ofthe severance tx bonding package. The GO. or gee cra abligaioa, hood ats wed for these ‘projects andthey canbe turned down by the vsers,  "Asin enter into anew legate ses son im V8. other ses aie from ou badge will rine, We need to ace wh ‘there are 25-505 increases ithe wellore Joads inthe Human Services Depa  i. Therewillbe amore in-depth look legislative ethics and/or pay. Term Tritton will be reviewed, a6 well as ‘economic developmen issues, belt ‘ate cont cur ncreding tax arden an ‘avionmena issues  “Thank you or sting me che opporte sty to seme as sua representing i ‘Sate gverament and for your oeuing input adie, and concern. Please cal meat 292-577 ean help  WARD cour ISSIONER  ‘A resident of Beratito County for over 4} years, ‘arbara Seward caresabout the quality of our at and water. Barbara ses the need for positive igroveth yet respects the unique quale of our  Farland urban resources Proven Experience and Participation + Ubon ToasportatioePaning Policy Board  1 Maropoltan Parks ost RecrestionAtsiory Boot + Anerics Png sain Nort Alege “hers Forum  ‘The 19945 will bold and imaginative leadership. Barbara Seward has a demonstrated record, serving theresidentsofboth Albuquerque and Bernalillo County for vera decade.  Positive Leadership  + County Planning Commision (CPO- ‘Toe terms Cat forte years,  + City Pinning Comndsion (EPO - ‘Toe Ter Chazfor fo yee  + Coals Comicon  1 Alluguerue Consroation Trt Founting Traster and Tresor  + Buninesonan  A fem bellver In business and economic development Batra Seward has also proven Hcomlnen fvard pcg ou Wao  Demonstrated Commitment  “+ Oh La Caro Lond Use Gide (ities Adssory Comite  ++ Dhergy Conseroation Fort  {+ Shared Vision Conference  Why Barbara Seward? ‘Because You and Bernalillo County Deserve the Very Best  Ballot Position #3,  04 en 5 Medan na  bug NM 7b as) 29 en sn Se  Road Improvement Beats Schedule By Patricia Casity, County Commissioner, District 4 “Teanway Bho, Phase I consraction is proceeding abcad of  schedule  “The Sate Highs Departments propasingto frais ust forthe resurfacing of the intersection of Montgomery and “Tramway to he added by change order to the eutremteoatract ‘We expect that comsruction on Phase Tt wil be essential complete by August or September ofthis yet  ‘We have deugacd 3 watering ssc for drought resistant Inndscagng long Teasteay. The sew Federal Higheas AG incladed Tung for Highnayeahancemen!projacte We bave made 06 cat fans for laesscaping Tramway Bhd, north Sax Antonio, We have dotineladedhe Gay section ofthis road south of San Antonis because City Tamiscaping is wsualy much more expeaive than we coat lie for Tearreay. I we ae snecesalinobeaining funding foe this work, we wil pla landscaping which is oth rough resis {amt and wil require ony how level sinter  Phase Il of Tramsay wil comit ofthe reconstruction “Teamiay Bld north of Paseo del Norte tothe S88 sa a Tramway Rd ere the Sandia Pui lands begin. These  ow the final sages of righ way sequin. Hcserthing (athin pace, we antxipue advertising fo bids for consivct about September 1922  Toll contin to Keep you poste  Low, level insurance rates guaranteed for 10. yea  on developments 25 they  _THENDSETTER™ LEVEE. 10 PoLICY* Page 15  Non—Commercial Advertising  Aa me aid eon oe ge a am qu Sone Henao sn, Sow comme ‘Sena Seve soap sip oe Far Sco ns ste ow LaFontsee Caracal ats flr rs nr cps cls a  = Sarak os  EES Se Pierulaaracas te | Samra tn ans ‘SLABS ceooaTATWORET | soar am Mapas peace | anes somrsos hese Somtaninganeyang ne | an oan mares ura | Sar  See cite | et os trenione  cimb ORS AR SEE ne | ROUSENTITR Repose eae Seyret pene eenprenccn | aretha pty cw | FSR heger som ramet owe | Sang me mg WEATIONING TH SEADEER? gh Rarer ue saint ‘emo baae utr on ug ee. TRAST, HOUSE, CUAANWOURE Fir | HOLME SITTING Cole wat ska of  enya an ine cement ty at | Soesa He, Rasa sees Ca Aas ti weet | eat ei  Feeesiar seri | razz remane Terwworn maim or ROUSE Ca SRNICE cing may | yen CaS He ah eg coi wing an ot sce  Region mi ey pe tn aependng omer geen Cot i Raa Se Nanted  [THGMTHALLING SSDCLEASING pap | PRIDETORE: New prem SeauctP IE WALLIN AND CLEANSSG ott | Eine Mga ron wean ane  pgs | western Ca oe 2  SRST Sea hears | SOCTHWESTERG SEE NOME nS — ~ ‘western tye fornahings for feature artis Setar Yemen, ___| Ss ton oe vite anise FaTORScED Ray Wr | SEEDANAPHMICRORAR TEN a | Dy emnpwen Ca Sn See  Sta Tan ope nega ve | met Rowe (ae 8) 29300, Wi ae Jats TkesCnssystnpron | sedge mae ne | EE aneeemer mages | ics cemtortenngee VuCA | TENMISPLAVERS. Reus meme  | pigeons Canes ons FETAND GHD LNs caeegye | ES  Eateteaceeats | eprene mees Eptcenecsntcss | Seeman PEeoear cas | Soe  SSiomemed Sree Sie cote SANDIA HEIGHTS BRIDGE CLUB  “haby site? Ua your ckbren wil ak for again Aoi Us For Bridge! Pesce oops ig dae ee aT || ey ia aver SRLS || tk ednenty 2nd Saturn Sse Tate came of your sop? Cal Rekand ‘tad Thursday “ib Saturday  \ i Mebay  “ane a pp Seige ou wa eo lay ay py ‘pons ace Pup a Wad ANT oe Poe a  Page 16  (505) 290-4260 u FALLS,  SCULPTURED WATER AAT  | eee PROFESSIONAL  1 sai Bound OF Rhee waren  —— - REMODELING  L ‘Sninocouate new Conce  Sandia Hhighte Homurwnirs aseiation SHHA - THE GRIT P.O, BOX 29021 ALBUQUERQUE, NM 871540021, 