Younes Fairey 1 Tabet Controversy Surrounds County Now Subdivision Opening Of Eagle Ridge Lane ‘San Bernadino ‘Tramway Bhd road construction hs tihsublhion, Bat withthe aces gate crcl nameroosconcrm ad peat fore Ena Gago Receaion et And Tramway lemsfor be Sandia Height communi. cated down at Tramway Bhd. and |The requet fo a Special Use Perit Undoubtedly he most eontrover lek eery evening a7 pam, hres) | fordevekpmet anew Sunda Heys  suc to dae isthe County's decom to ‘open Eape Rigs Lain Unit 1 ‘Bernalilo Count fst sanosnced is inte to open the rod in June, 199110 provide detour through Sandia Heighs Sd acces to Simms Park Rd. aad the Elena Gallegos Recreation Area daring amvay road contruction, Flowing ‘completion of Trameay Bhd the  (Coon indicated t would be receptive to the comunity’ wishes to clone Eagle Ridge La. oo beep it open,  The Sandia Heights" Homeowners ‘Association (SHA) Board of Drews ‘otedtopoltheesidentsia Unit 1S upon  ‘commundy’s position regarding opening cr closure of Eagle Ridge Lo,  “Unforonately the Board sdecisionto Jette majority rule was based on mixin formation anda ack of nfraation re ‘arding who has jurisdiction over the ‘opening or coware of this road” sid Taney rink, Repeescmative on the Boatd foe SHIA s Eagle Disc (Uaies 12.18, and 17).  ‘The Board now has earned that when ‘Unit 15 was plated i 1964 the County ‘requiedthecogslructionof Bac Ridge [La since an aroyo crosses Marigold Dr, wich prohibits its use a the sale acess {nto thissusdvsion. However when the Sandia Peak Tram Co. began the devel: ‘opmest and grading of Unit 15, a wire fence was placed arous Eagle Ridge Ln  “No ane seems to know why this wire fence remained in place forsee yar” ‘Brink said, “in lation of the Conety's ‘onn ordinance requiring dual access to  ‘sas a moot point" Now with the re- pastioning of the Elem Gallegos gate ‘asf Eagle Ride La this an become ‘verycontroveril ise for residemts in the alfectedshisoes  "The opening of Eagle Ridge La. has seat increased he talc i Unit 5, ‘Sid Bob Ovens, Unt 15 resist and Spokesman forthe residents who want Eagle RidgeL.a cloned. Oweashascirc lated a pettion calling fr closere of ape Ridg= La. and placement of the ElenaGallegs accesgate back down at “Tramway Biv, The petition, which was signed by residents in 42 of the Si Bomes in Unit 15 hasbeen forwarded County Commissioner Patica Csi.  “Een ater Simm Park RA. re ‘opened, there's heen 2 tof noes ‘Ben tafe in our neighborhood” ‘Owens reported that other coacers finclade the ikelbood of ate night ad sunarhorized acess to Simms Park RA and the Elena Gallegos Recreation Area the possblity of drag racing oa Simms Park Ka; quetions aout the safety ofthe Eagle Ridge La. and irs Park Ritersection dus to limited vis  and the increased peobaility of late night acces tothe exighbochood, accompanied by an nercasein crime  ‘Aa inguty ty the GRIT newsletter Hal into security calls within Unit 15. showed that rom Januar through June, 1091 whea Eagle Ridge Ln. mas til <oned the Secority Ptr responded Seals in Uni 18. From July through December, IL ater the road. was  responded to only 3 cals Continaed ox page 9  esidemialsabivsion on the soreast ‘ormot of San Bermadino and Trameay Bs. was approved, with conditions, by ‘the Bernall County Planning Comalse son (CPO) oo January & 1992 The pet- tit roquest was sabmiied by the land ‘owner and developer, Dor Morgan  Based on input from the SHHA and Indidualresilens, the Commision approvedthe Special UsePermitwihthe fellowing conditions:  '©1A marimum of 52 ts stall be al- lowedifallenginecringconcernare adeessed  18 The developer shall provide mine mitigation aloag Tramway Bh. 3c ‘cepable tothe County Public Werks Deparine  © A more detailed ste development pl and drainage plan, stsacory otal shall be submited and op- proved prior tothe issuance of any ailing perm  18 Lt ies abutting existing develop sent sal be increased 19 be more ‘Consent wih surrounding as  ‘© Building height shall no exceed 18 feet.  ‘The SHHA recent received notice that Morgan hts appealed the Ia two  Commissioners. The appeal wil be heard at the County Commision meet- ing oe Tuesday, February 25. A planing ‘meeting for al Sandia Heights renee ‘who ae interested inthe appeal eating  ‘Continued on page 2  Page?  “Grit  ‘The GRIT inthe official ‘nevaleter of the SANDIA MEIGIETS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, INC. P.O, Box 20021 Albuawergee, NM 87154-0021  PUBLISHER: MICRODATA inc. y  fo Harry Cre! 326 Paintbeash Dr. NE t  ‘Albuquerque, NM 87122 2a j  Usbiity issues Affect County’e Declelone  sds Nee The SHILA Hey Cia Bos wa ane 197 Cun Rik ubnage cones ts ht eta pay oer pro oat ‘fomamfndsving minora Cosy Pe Sot bewcsdesrmnuCoaginonhind Peo ‘iret a te brn one ot Se Son wa i ee nl precpaong wast Fer mee nfm on the age age Lane tae ae be onan ome "Conmoen op |  ‘On December 2, 1991 seat alester to those aists und ratspeople who would ‘hve participated in the 1991 Sandia Heights Holiday Bazesr, hed it ot been ‘arceied, feel tha some ofthe information ee-ainedin that eter maybe ofinterest to readers of The GRIT.  ‘Coony Fire Chief Jerry Lambert issued a final draft of the official directive ‘sxparding we of erneillo County Fire Staion or commit actives Decem- 1er6,1991 te become efocine immediately. Among ober things, the policy sated ‘hat Commonity meetings peighborbood wseciatio. meetings, or other similar ‘cities wil be vex prog consideration to lie tke fire stations ahr those ‘EiMies“etnded forthe exclasie use an beac ofthe Beraalilo Couny Fie De- Ferment” However, ll revenbe olicted ia ibs couse a an fundraising sets, ‘would have to be deposited wth the Cosnty  ‘am soe thatthe Holiday Bazaar had tole canclled But! am care that many. ‘feo: al of you have aso experienced the evr escalating expense ofall types of ‘surance coverage whic ha oresd Bezaalile Cory tc tke this action  met with SHIA President Bil Stabler fm Dzccmber an informed his thatthe Sandia Heights Homeowners Association nd the SHHA Aretitecteal Commitee ‘ould cxntinse tomeet atthe Dis 5 sation. On a different matter, County Public ‘Works Direioe Jha Ramsey, has Sent a sero the Homeowners Association (via 'SHHA Board Member Janey Bink) in an eflort to earify the Counts postion ‘regarding the status of Eagle Ridge Lane and inquiries/requsts 1 have the road dosed. Tr that eter, Mr. Ramsey outlines the potential Hegel ibility the Couoty ‘would be exposed to inthe event thatthe road Was closed and it was needed in ‘Emergency station by ctherrecue vehicles or priate tizess, Ni. Ramsey ako ‘States that “the acceptance of Marigold Drie through the ood plain andthe orga ‘condition of wcceptance of Unit 15 requires that Eagle Ridge Lane remain open”  ‘An opening t Eagle Ridge Lane wil abo allow for equested bus serves by Albagsergoe Public Schools for homes on the een of the developed area  ‘Astiwagy !amatailable ans any andl. questions you may have either amy lice (768-000) or a home (881-3876). T hope all of you have a wonderfol 1992 New Subdivision {ioual mecting tthe County Fire Station  Conte fom page 1 December fr the SHHA members ieacheduld atthe Distt Fine Station Unis 9 and 18, the units that wil be cn Wednesday, February 12 following adcent 10 the ne development. ‘the Board of Dioctors meeting which Morgan's spent, Vern Hagen, alended begins a 7 pan. the mectingto snwer questions. Mary ‘Morgan suited a preliminary plat ll. a resident in Unit 9, also howed a to County Planning proposing $2 kas/ mecting in her home to dncos faves ddveling units on the T-aere tract =o regarding the new subdivision. 1X7 dling unis per are (DU/acre). The collecine imerests and concerns ‘Even tough the Coumny-approved San- of che Sandia Heights Homeowners ia Hcighta Master Plan wil alow upto. Association were presemed tothe Com: 0 DU/acre ons picce af propemy. at mission by SHHA Vice Presidemt Rod Dreseat the highew density’ along thin Stewart. Sandia Heights residents Marty Tramway Bhd. corridor 6 DU/acre Hill, Jack Wir, Kristine Jacobas James Unies. nd Sinan Semada, Oliva Powel, aad ‘The Sandia Heights Homeowners Penny Ritterbush aso attended the CPC ‘Association (SHHA) bsted an informa: Continued on page 3 Pees  New Subdivision Continued from page 2 hearing wo preset thir nd concers.  “The Asiocation viewed Mergats proposed deny as  acceptable,” said Stewart. “Our concerns center ard the  tanstion zo0e from the half acre and larger lt i Units 9 ad 18 othe considerably smalle es within the new subbivsion, Wealsohope tominimiz the Bckapeuiews for ting residaces by Bmting the eight of Romes inthe nce suis”  ‘Stewart reported thatthe SHHA also sa at cri the evelope’s construction ofa wall to peoec future residents whose property will back ep to Trameay Bd frm the acse and pollion.  ‘After the appeal proces is finished and the condons of approval forte Special Use Permit are flied, Morgan's nea step willbe to apply tothe CPC or Subdivision Approval ‘Since ths willbe the first sabdsion withthe Sanda eights Masicr Plan area that has not ben developed bythe Sanda  ast Co, the SHHA wants to make sore that the  arecomsstnt with other ubvisonsin our comm:  nny and that ether aspects ofthe subd willbe compatible soch as architecture, landscaping, and lighting  “Working wth Doa Morgan throughout ths process atop priority ofthe SHHLA Bose of Directors,” Sekar il. “Mr Morgan syshe wants to develop fist classuiinon, she sod the Atsoistion already havea common gol. We have hopes hat Me- Morgan, the SHELA and the concerted neigh bors cam work gether to age upon & mutual neceptable  @ COLD | ww 2) |  | +  | Low HUMIDITY  | Winter's emiel to your stn. Avon can help. | Call for a fee lotion sample pack and catalogue.  | AVON  WYNNE WOOD | 226-0203 |  Serving Sandia Heights  plas for developmest apd covenant enforcement within this ‘ew neighborhood  “An ongoing concern of the SHHLA'isthe salt parceloa the southeas corner of Tramway and San Bernadino that Was ‘xcloded fom Morgan's montreal Special Use Request. fa December, 9s), Morgan requested commercial oni oth ‘tacretrac, The C-1 zoning mas opposed by the SHIA and  esses inboth Sandia Heights and North AIbuque! que  ‘Acres, engin 3 defrel bythe Commission  Me. Morgan tats tha he hast cided what he wants 12 \dowith this coene,” Stewart sid. "Sokeepingaclose watch on ‘one change Spc Use Requests fo this parcel willbe iam poctat.  Associaton members may cathe SHMA office (2789112) {orinformation othe appeal hearing and progress reports ca the subdivision approval proces  “Nature Books “Decorative Gifts  Pages Recycling Celebrates ss sd may beable accent tom  fine totine, Suna High eens Senda Heights  Year Of Success ——ouldwaichiherealingtigncnTram. || Homeowners Aagocltion  may Bh fe chars th  feo  WiistinandayBiak ele mata Boa of Donor Maange  SHA Reating Dears Whe the Cayo Abugurave pee ;  SHHA Recying Deco Wiehe Cy of Abou 1 Wednesday aide realng up 2nd Wednesday  ‘Oue communi’ large and most withinthe Ciylimis sometime sum the ‘comprehensive recylingeffor to dates neighborhood reeling program is ex  now just over one year old and hat peed to cominue for the Toreseable 700 pm. reached some considerable succes! fare. For frther informtion on existing || P9880 Get Nora Fire Station ‘About 30 people joined che Sandia matters, eal Janey Brisk (291010) oF Everyone Wilcomel  Heights Homeowners Association Bill Hein (291-0889), (GHHA) Recyeing Commitee over the past year, snd i estimated that about Wo hundred families bring reqeling materialstotheQuailRunCemeronthe || fourth Saturday of each moet, } ot “Through Nosember 1091, the SHA, had received $1007.20 forts reeled || materials. The Association's Board of Directors delegated the authori to de- min we ofthe funds tthe Resting \ Committe. While no decison bas ices  MAX SANCHEZ. | YOUR BEST CHOICE | * Sona eg ase super amore | Srnec coe cl i Ses, J  forsee one of lbugoergi top en reduces, teamed eth de enowmed H.  Batnegg Beals. ofers you Real Tsate  sade, one postive suggestion under exper and yeas of experience Consideration is to use the money as 2 Max Sanches es in Sandia Heighs, loves Sanda Heights and seed fund” for use in connection With ows te terry leit was hn ickyard — beau i is the Tramway Landscape Project. Inaclyatd Por profesional service and Eat, award-winning ress call ia wen yout buy oe eli Sanda Hes  (Our recyetingclleaon eaters open Max Sanches the Sanda Highs Specs. from 9 am. unit 12 s99n. The Ciy of ‘Albuquerque sends large tucks toQuall | yea Sanches SDA HLPARNEGG op. 969.2211 ‘Run enter and he Commitee unloads ean Bret FERLTVOINC gesidene: 293-8718  the reejlables (rom cliemis cars and treks into the large City tucks. The = Committee can always use more belp. 50 ~ “| if you woud like 1 help out plese call SOUTHWEST neofthemocochitnimed kn, | MOUNTAINS & WATERFALLS  Limitation paced by the Cty on our collection vary from time time. Only ‘hosematcrialsarecolletedthal the ly ‘sillaecept which in orn varies byw the reeyeing companies accept ror the City. At presen the following are being accepted" Newspapers = Kral paper boxes = Alum'aum = Types one and two plastics (ook ia the recelngieiangle om the Bottom cl the botle) ~ Clear gass |  “The Commitce i ooking for «reey- linganarket forbrowaandgreencslored  ‘bermcen 9am. and 12 nooe othe Qual Ron Center, 2700 San Rafael. See the sory on pape 4 fra fist of items currently being secpted lor roping  ‘A planning mectng fo allSandia Heights tesidems who ae iterestedin Don Morgan's Special Use Reques appeal hearing on Febreary2Sbefore the County Comnmisonhasbeen scheduledfor Wednesday, February I2athe District ‘Fire Station ca Paseo del Nor County Commissioner Pat Cassidy wll ein afendance atthe planning meting immeditely flowing the regular monthly SHHA Board of Directors meeting which bgins at 7 pam. For more information on Morgan's Special Use Request for anew residential sebivsion, see “New Sudivsion” os page  “Mark you calcadar oe Saturday, June 6 forthe Sandia Heights Homeowners Association Annual Members Mecting fotlowedy the Spring ling Picnic The members meeting will ncude the election of new directors to serve om the SHHA Board so mow sthetime ostrcoesdering your cadacy. Spring Fling wil have actives foal age group, ‘log with delicious food and plenty of comenunty camaraderie. Volusters ae needed to help with food and fun atthe picnic Call Spring Fling Director Lint Stewart (29-9730) or pen lalormation othe SHILA clic (275- 9112) for geacral information on either eve.  ‘The Sandia Heights Homeowners Assocation was recently tecogniced at the anmual awards banquet ofthe [Neighborhood Assocation f Albuquergae for its 20+ years of service tothe Sania Heighscommunay. Out of ‘some 200 neighborhood associations in the Albuquerque metro aca, only 16 wsacatios have teem serving and ‘representing their commutes as log, or longer, thar the SHIVA. Congratulations and thank you toa of the past. tnd current eficers and direcors ofthe Association who have volgcered so much ie and expertise to this community sine 197  ‘The Sandia Peak Team Co, has ntifed the SHHLA and adjaccet neighbors about their plans to develop a new residential subdivision onthe northwest corner of Tramay Bid. and San Rafac The S81.acre tract was zoned forcommercal development. However, the Tram Co has sbmitod Special Use rogues tallow constriction of 26 single family homes at a density of 4 dwelling ants pet acre, which comparable to the density of ether ‘Suhdiviions along Tramway Bld. For ational information, contac the SHHA office (275-9112).  Membersofihe SHHA Boardof Decors met ecentwthrepresetaiesof High Desert Inestment Corporation, whichis developingthe 1000 ates berween Sandia Heghts nd Glenwood Hil igh Desert announced thet intent to dedicate the 205-sere tac of land between Sandia Heights and Sms Park Rd tothe Cy of Albuquerque ‘Conditions ofthe dedication wil include the requirement that no potmunes seucturesbe cwsiraced or placed on the lind  SHHA Community Coffees  Mes new eit an eu fw at he commu cen. Ms ou en oy ou Men you pln oe ‘ih cmp ang Cal Ber Set 2S ow wna oie selec a yo ae ie enone wee! ‘Wednesday, February 12, 10am-12 noo Wednesday, Api 8, 1am-12 moon atthe home of Michele Benedict atthe home of Jube Dreanan, +48 Lne Oak Loop ‘S Daniper Hi Ra 7971 S162 Wedaesday, March 11, 10-12 noon ‘Spoil thanks Rab Freeman, Beth Stall, tat he home of Rab Freeman and Lucy Russell who sted our 13 Dig Hora Ridge Ce ‘Colles t= November, December, 62977 and Janey  “THE GRIT ADVERTISING RATES  oncom a bys sing) EREE ‘Sinenemot ne Sona gh omemnes oso  Des cade - 50 prstree ()ee pty ah per 1/4 pap SS yr 1/3 page. 50 pera  Another reason to get invisible Fencing,  ipa Teck pice aan er edad  Ereayclyarpuocty teams foycovern Vay poeery rcomies Irony Ard you'wore "eonowe sh os  [Dkr al che rescrs eine fering ck  Deadline for the hay "Grit”  ine for_submiting ads ion forthe May lsu of The GRIT is Wednesday, April 15, 1992. Pleese submit all materials (o Sherry Lombana, 14201 Encantado Rd, NE, Albaguerque, NM 87123, 2759132,  "Grit" Cleculation  “Taisiasve of The Gri wes mailedtothe 1079 members of the Sandia Heights Homerwncn aisccation  Judges Anr Announce Contest Winners  The Sanda Hein Hoy Lis Contes. sponsored by the Sandia Heights Homeowsers Association, had the largest mamber of participants ver, reported Ed Whiten, SHHA Director of Paris and Recreation.  “Sonse ofthe displays were 40 ypec- tacelar that several deve-bys were re- quired for judges wo agree on the win snecy” White sid.  "Winsee inthe Traditional Lights cate- ‘zy wore Barbara and Doo Raberson, TASS Bluebell De, frst place; Gary and Kathi Wiliams, S99 Black Bent Rd, second place: Paul and labele Bradley, ‘33 Cedar Hill P, honorable mention  “The Luminari etegory had two wi ners, Fest place went to Maureen and Stephen Baca, 977 Antelope Ave, An honorable menion was awardedto Andy sad Judy Anderson, 13 Juniper Hill  Loop.  “The fist and second place winners were avarded cash prizes andthe honor able mentions recived pasesto ride the Ssedia Peak Team.  “1 overheard mumber of comments and camversations about the beautiful ‘ccorstims i Sandia Heightsthis ea.” ‘Whiten said. “The Unit 1S neighbor ‘hood did an especially ice jb of co ‘ang for the hoidays. Maybe we'll ‘consider starting « new category next year forthe bes decorated subisin.” STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES  Tom Wray fi iW  Groves/ Wray John N. Gabaldon  haw SASSOCIATES  RAVEL CLUB  7 ee Meee 7 JY.  Specialising to Toe  FRANCINE COGEN  (505) 881-8750 emeertensy  —___t=xUS___|_ SHARON'S HOME CLEANING GaLLes LEXUS  ‘THOMAS NUNNALLY (505) 883.8800, Home: 25-1343 1-800-48-1951 (01 San Mateo NE» Albuquerue, NO 87109  euwosner Judi's Studio pine (505) 296-4567 + FREE LANCE msTERIORS Cera Lic iar PAINTINGS The Vaughan Company ™ SILK DESIGNS  Judi Foster, Owner  y iChat eagle! + One oC ROPITEN Realtors Abuayernae  Enhance your Quality of Life with Professionally Designed Fitness Programs  Exercise with Your Peers* Educatior~| Health Seminars ns Cardiovascular and Weight Equipments Modifie Aerobic Classes» (No contracts)  INTRODUCTORY MEMBERSHIP RATES - no contract Single: $100 enrollment fee - $45 per month Couple: $150 enrollment tee - $65 per month  JUDY DEVEREAUX, PHYSICAL THERAPIST ON SITE 271 - 9616 11801 Menaul NE (5 short blocks east of Juan Tabo)  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association ‘Homeowners Referral Program Guidelines  ‘The Homeowners Referral Program i an information service for homeowners who ae contemplating or anticipating home maintenance or rept projects. Information about hemeoweers experiences with ccttactots service prone iscollected |  ‘the rating forms, and the forms are led acording to service categories All rating forms ~ both postive and negative ae Inch i the renal fe  “Twoideatcal copes ofthe referral fle are maatained coe at he Sandia Height residence of John Beede, and oat at he slice ofthe SHHA Executive Assistant, Sherry Lombana, To otain referral information orto make arrangements fo review the emir ile, contact John on Sherry (see below). To receive addtional copies of berating form, contac Sherry atthe SHHA,  offi. elpfal Mint: We prepared! Come and review the fle before the plumbing backs up or the heat goes of in mid-winter  Ponsble referral categories include the following  ‘= Air Conditioning/Heating Painting Appliance Repair aPhumbers  ‘a Cabinet Work ‘#Pool Service Carpenters Propane Service Carpet Cleaning ' Roofing/Roof Repairs ‘© Chimney Cleaning ‘Security Systems ‘© Concrete/Asphalt ‘Septic Tank Service = DrywallPlastering ‘Sprinkler Repair ‘= Blectricians ‘8Stvcco Work  ‘e Exterminators Tree Removal aFences a Wallpapering  1 Fireplace Repair 2 Window Cleaning  “The Homeowmers Relea program doesnot clininat the homeowner's responsibility to obtain compeiaive buds; tere wien coazacts/estimates: ot venta contractor's ‘Professional qualifications, Ieenss, ot bonding. The Sanda Height Homeowners Assocation does not recommend any parila service or service provider. The ‘Assocation nly maintain fil frating forms prepared by homeowners who have wed ‘these services and makes the ile valableto members ofthe Homeowners Assocation.  ok Beeder Sherry Lombssa  1017 Tramway Lane NE 1M Eacarcado RA. NE ‘Atbuqucraue, NM 87122 Abboquerque, NMATI23 Bees rsa  Rating Form On Revere Side eat: Soary Lamba ‘SHHA REFERRAL PROGRAM soe  RATING FORM \Sovecenesghe ne Aieccee bat 23  ‘Type ol Serie Proved  ‘Name of Company/Service Provider he Rar  Company Adios Cone Nae  Hlomcownens Adres Phone No. (opoeal)  Answer the following questions that are applicable Lo the service provided  1. Provided writen contractor esimate? Yes) No] Pleme attach a copy ofthe contacto estimate, pore. Comments: a a 2 Priced reasonably (inne withthe quay and scape cf work)? Yea]. NoC] Comments: = = Adhere to orignal cost eximate (cxcuding changes)? Yea] No] Commens: -  4. Acquted your approval prior Lo making changes inthe scope of work? Ye) Not) thangesin price? Yes). NOC)  Comments:  |S. Documested (a wring) changes inthe price or scope of work before the work was performed? Yes] NoC]  Commenss  6 Would you we this contaaor's services agsia? Yes]. No)  Rate the quality of work according to the following criteria: Excellent  ‘Keeps sppoiniments Noni you if delayed. ‘Completes work os time.  ‘Cleans up after completion of work ‘Considerate of property ‘Overall gua of work  FBene ooono F  ooooog bowood &  B  fs  Adsitioaal commesss: —  Signature of Homeowner Date  Page  Crime Prevention Requires a  Neighborhood Support  ‘The Somlia Heights community hase ofthelowesterine rates oan sigh> bborhood inthe City or County. You ea help Kep crime toa minimum by actively supporting the forts and programs of our local law enforcement agencies ad by subscribing othe Sandia Heights Security Patrol Call the ‘Sandia Peak Tram Co. (2969888) for information on security services and subscription rates  ‘Sandia eights Seority Patrol Calls Jan through Dec, 191  she  is 2 Fy | Py » 2 B 4 5 6 ° 1 7 2 3 3 % al 1% 3 s | x | s 2 = 105 | : 15 ‘Vacant Houses (For Sale te) > Specials (Extra Patrol/Oseration) » Homcownerson Vocation =. aa07 TOTAL CALLS FOR 1991 2938  + Recon APD Cae A a Ray 1 Recned by APD Com Aon Unt Laney Spc mar tear erm ane nr ta ior atch shen ee a meg  tm pmctvmce  Eagle Ridge Lane Contd poppe 1  Howe, 7 of ton 3 call wee for tanta ~ 3 on bons and? for Tanner to qc from he Sandi Nein Homeowners Ascii Fe fedg teal ooo is Ste, Deo a Coumy Foc Werks Jha Ransy sealer tothe Asoc ton sating tat Eagle Rie La met femain ope, In edo the Cows ‘oui rg recommend othe cio ‘Mboup that the les Gap ed poe bs eh tts ey bo Reson etd bythe Cony nde the fequemen eran alweube ace inoshe asso wich Marl De tesa he ney Abas PticSoo frst op wii Unit TS whch ha ot een vied ice ‘Shelles one arn aownd ay od bans wrecks Sig the wood be incre by the Cony ere wat a emerge Stow sod ether emergeny weeks indridah cold we get mo o of  down gate through which emergency ‘vebcles could gan access onto Simms Park Ra and Unit 18" Owens sid. "A ir of wire cutters tn snips woul be thas eequited for residents 10 get {hough th ence across Eagle Rie Ln Jn an emergency situation. As fr as bos acces, APS could oficial designate ‘Uric iSasan ‘outlying are’ which would allowtheschool basestosck upand ten ‘round on Eagle Ridge De.”  ya Prado, a practicing physician, ‘onc ofthe Una 15 residents who wants age Ridge La. to romain open. “laa number ofinstances thave feared fr my ‘personal safety trying get imto and ost Of the neighborhood fr ate night and cary morning call,” Prado sab.  Hea aim have created a a-swol- lem arroyo across Marigold De. on = rnumbet of ocasions, most recently in ‘Ags of 19%, But the arroyo mot the ‘only concern, The steepness of Marigold ‘De and problems with geting up and down Margo during icy road coodi-  Continued on page 10 Page 10  Referral Progr: Eagle Ridge Lane The yards along Marigold during and af uM ie om Continued from page 9 tere snow storm.  laintains Popularity — | jonsareaiossice Duringsoowsiorms, Owens admitted that he personally  ‘Oneofthe most popular member ser | some residents of Unit 15 have had 10 used the Eagle Ridge La. access during  ‘lees provided by the Sandia Heights omtownes Auociion(SHHA) ee Brassed aie wth ts "The Hosconn Rell Progr rs Relea suoocesuahita mntertae Fobra 190 ane of ie awe ‘ot conse tote one of he et “acy uedmentersevee Ther ‘apo wr dence y Assocs Tecate fo Homeport sherk Cspeenced Scan fing ee ‘Bl and ardteotertodo vena royeany  ‘an cathe Sandia Heights feral pro- (gam repreveniative othe SHHA office and make arrangementstoreview the ie ‘oF toobiain information over the poze ca the referrals in any gives category such as plumbers, letrcans, band ‘men, howe primer, ec.  Joke Beeder, member of the SHHA Board of Direcors, s the new refereal rogram representative in the Sandia “Hilghs community, Beedes report the rogram fle now contains 6s relerralsia 27 service categories, but referrals are ‘needed ithe fliowig areas: Conercte/ asphalt work, electricians, enees/wall, Sireplace repair, oor coverings, tion repair ghss/mirorsigaton ys {em instllation/repair, locksmiths, muito iestallaton, mesoary, patio, ocls/poct service, propane service, oofes, security stems, stucco Work, tree surgeons, tte removal, wallpaper: ing window cleaning. yard maintenance.  ‘Expanding the ile and keeping up ate are hey tothe coatined success of  park a the bottom of Eagle Ridge Rd. ted alk in biraed conditions on ey toads to their homes.  ‘On one occasion hefore Eagle Ridge La. was opea, Prado reports she was Torced to eall the hospital emergency ‘aoa and ll them 0 rnd another py ‘can‘o see one of ber paticats because she couldat get out through Marigold ‘Dr. "Can you imagine the teil Hi ‘aly i that patient had serious medical complications while Twas unable o gaia ‘secras o a road that County ordiance taps is supposed tobe open:  ‘Some residents ia Unit 12 aso have spokes out is favor of Eagle Ridge Le. ‘remaining open. ~The road's opening fas improsed our stuscion” ssid Johe “Tomascitl who ines on Marigold De. “I (ess speed will aways be a ssuc coda problem in Sendla Heighs. Suto lcost Uralfic on Marigold is dows to a sore reasonable level which mens there are ewer speeding curs and less wash being ‘throws in ose yar.”  ‘Mailboxes of the Marigold Dr. resi enisare frequents itty ears especally ‘when the roods get icy, Tomas re ported. Wetind re racks ofthe Unit 1S sides, and sometines their cars ia ‘er front yards. Apparently isnot un ‘common to see car being towed ost of  ‘therecentsnow storm, asdidanamberof ‘other residents who signed the petition requesting the road's closre. “Theres ‘no doubt that i's more comenien,” ‘Owens sad, “pantealary during bad ‘weather. But out concerns for the ‘eigsbortoof ssecartyfaroutweigh any ‘whhos for inereaned comvenienc.”  “First the Couny told they would honor the community's wathes raring agi: Ridge La. Now that we have 2 petition showing that the majority of ‘esccntsin Uait Swat be rood closed, theyre backing out om the agreement.” ‘Ovens sid. "We also feel that the omsoeners snaccltion nx fulfling its obligation to represest the interests aendeoncermsofamajorityefite members Inaur aighborhood”  “This controversy has broagh some mace ies end questions Before the SHEA Board whieh are going to have \o be aldressed” Brink sald. “There's 00 donb that a majoriy of the affeced resicents want the road closed. But the ‘Asscciaton’s Boardof Dieetorsin ques: tioning whether k even has the authority ‘or power to influence the County's dei- ‘Sion to beep the road open” Brink as Feported that the Board can't help bat be ‘cancerned about tying 10 protect the  Conte om page 1?  Do you have e quality Sandia Heights lot that you would sell for cash?  We have out-of-state customers for custom homes and need several lots.  CALL PETE OR HERSHEL - BRUSHWOOD HOMES, INC.  Coenen | Committee Targets Basketball Goals ‘Scans ht tnay jochardse te salty of And Unscreened Equipment  cxher persom and other scghborhoods.| Despite a blscry winter, moderate Support Commit receies complaints Thope alltheresidentsin Uni 1S who | weather andthe optim time Tor home fram the eesidens at higher elevations signed their names and addreses othe | maistenance and repr wil sow be wholodk downon roofs wah unscreened peiition ae ready and wing to share in| het. quipmcat ny lability that eventually cold beat- | A covenant inspection tour of the {ached to this issu,” Bink said. “Ive | Sandia Heights community reveals nu- Sandia Heights’ Architectural Design ‘beenamember ofthe SHHA Boardlong | merous unsrcesed, easily round- Standards requice the screening of al ‘aough o lean that the egal ramifica: | undo mounted air condinoner Even equipment. nado, the Decacations ‘oes of these coutonerses can be far | thowph some of this equipment may aut of Restctions for mont Sandia Helgi. teaching and very eens tt | he vwuble fom the road, the Conenant subdivisions pecially require the | srcening of equipment ~partiaary ll rootmoonted equipment Equipmeet ‘cestomarly is seened wih reawood or eda fencing oF succoed parapet walls thatare painted or color coatedto match the Bouse, ‘White basketball goals are another cqeiore and provacat covenant Wolation | terooghoot the communi. In accor  Private, In Home Instruction for Sows for Sandia igh Sandia Heights Residents ‘guies architecrural commit or Since the comitee will  Join Ongoing Classes at Studio ‘Evra on at 10900 Menaul NE, Suite L fre puatod an earthone color, all whine  For Information Call Marilyn J | °°“ 292-6868 Reser by the comic reeled  there arc a namber of pants on the sarket for we in painting ferpass beckboards, One brand wed recently by | a commie member is avaiable at | Custom Paint Cmte o  | tes not the seriounes ofthese vio toes tha’ creating peobl: | orcretheining nem  ‘caring vp all unscreened equipacet | Sndwtitcbashetal goa! violations inthe  coming months and even turning thom ‘vert the attorney, if necessary, 10 achieve compliance  Complete & Dependable ‘Commercial & Residential Cleaning Service  Don't wat for a violation  *Ucensed “Bonded  CLEANING SER’ 4 addtional information on  298-3033  tons or requirements FACT: Nie ogy yor ay  [Dscover hn easy 2s osc to ean, comet, mosey svng rat ps, Cl LSD-TALK GAS ody o ip by your nearest Gas Copa of New ico oe ad wet give you cue steps “Ws So Easy To Sitch to Natural Cas" oration packe.  Page 13  sage iodine dressing, Sia i: ‘ans am tractive, fay drought ol ‘rant rey-leaved shrby 2 oot pre ‘il with dark be avender lowers aod is wef for many of out garden sw: sions. Handsome hybrids hase been Aeveloped with variegated golden, pak ‘0 purplish eaves to st off the blue or purple flowers, but they may be more choosy about their growing conditions thas the original. Used for thowsands of years in mcaicies aad Mavoring, Sia ‘Somes fom the Ltia word to eal aad ‘the officals part comes from the old term fr alice ot pharmacy. There are Ihunizeds of kind all ove the topical and icmperate worl, 3 growing wld ia  the Southwest, “chia” to the Indians. Taere are 2 umber of handsome Southwest native saviae fom small plants tolarge shrubs. Probably the most  tscflpreseaty available for wat srnching gardens in our area are Mealy (Cup Sage, Sabi fainasca (which has 2 number ol cutnatsicleding “Vico and Big Blue Se, Salvia azunea  ‘Mealy Cup Sage becomes abandsome- 3 fot clump with dcp Nae lowers set ‘lf by roy purple bracts which hang oa after flowering. tis ither an annual or peteanal depending oa the wiser bat  Express (a trocees to the ground each inter), and depending on wate pro- duces 2-4 fot spikes of heaven blue flowers in Ite summer jos when you  THE VIEW FROM JACKRABBIT HILL  thonght mot lowers wer ps ’A Soules aie, Auten sige oF  hey nai ley  tuttaeseatera 7  lea twice a  Steacencs *  rol estblahed  ‘At my ome,  ffoce ou in the  sviter, though  Imanypeogichave Sabon ange  eter sorcse with 1 Resp eng i  though, Beas it is 0 sho, red td  Pink: As waa the species appears tobe  ‘ore cold oerat than he newer oor  Seeducios Sai lexan rom  Southern California ok ike maybe  ‘good betfor ait males handnome  5 foce sir wit bande he owes  i pros bay.  ‘A note on “seth sage”: The fie ‘engine red annual beloved by pack gs <denerallovrinSaliasplcadens (has ‘many clvars hat areal nea scarlet) The Texaeative Sabi coccinea isnt as “scarlet sage” and is jst as rds is  ‘ofthe Southwest.” ome of Karen Kvam, 731 Trameay La composting:  san Jue Sandia Heights G  Sandia Heights Wildflower Club ‘The Wadlower Cas anu ingot Gena Pires owe featured a onan de show y Preside! Bes Cray ented Mena Pants  ‘The grou net ecg scheduled fr 730 pm. cm Wed, March 8a tbe Cito i deo the avenge crank garcing ol ejvenaton, and  ‘Wach the neat iste of The GRIT for information onthe Wildflower Club's ren Tout, For more infersation om cab actitcs call Be Grady ot 27-0798  Anna ch des ar st $5.4 ear ond everone is welcome 4 Jon  Just 1 al 10 the comfnion, scarlet. ‘edge net, Stays cocina ismarked elt sae insome nurseries. Foe my arden i'sthebestof the cast winters (rer well ond coms pest fice, Hum singed love it  subs  A few other sony New Mesico autive sagen ace sometines calle in the tursries: they are worth tying Nom autve sages may have 19 be protected srl in the winter 254 many come fom swarm deers or een Maca. Tve had food lack wth mine on the south ide tere they are protected from the old veins, bat they require more water than the aaies. Ol ashanod redpncapple sas froze to the growed daring the Yokos Express bat came back aod is ‘loominghappl this summer. They are generally que tolerant plants and could ‘be happy 0 your garden  Jean tes  il Fry of the Organ Growers Asso  Now is the tims to have your  perfect Dream Home.With interest F  rates their lowest in 27 years, now  fs the time to transform your home  into your Dream Home. You have often thought about @ bigger, brighter Kitchen - skylights In the living room - or maybe an offfes acided on at home.  Call Today for a Free Estimais We offer a 10 year  f| available at your request. We also have @ handyman  Hy clvision ready to help you with your I smalobs, ‘  INAS  ERJOY THE CONVENIENCE OF PREE FICK UP @ oe  in edition to ganersl dry cleaning, our specialties indtude = SICK, HANS.   } PAINTED SILiCe,  DOWN Sit WEAR, KAVASO RUGS, AND ANTIQUE CLOTHING,  PICK UP & DELIVERY  Page 15  Non-Commercial Advertising  in nc plate ft ond pn nt os io am ah oneal  ‘Semen sev aan hoa Fat onthe Lean nd Wane ah a  ‘egans ecu re tna of ean mo Sn i eg ar at cnc ha "a cna ma beth te Cat SSS 0 apr a  BoETRR ANG NNN FOO MAR | FET AND CLOW ec trae (Sc Cat Ben Wig (ag5) o 2834 | ps aa wha he Guayworitnctntyeanscboneegrnce_| tat your fn ates ime en eau ryet cot bouse sing fant ni | Orbupac. Inowlosefepennce abet {imam sadbnyuting Reeentopeaed | nee the Rad Cit ay ing ome  ‘Tove cinn $0 Wore ane | O87" eres ea ae SL tenon Calanien Wouae WHTUR HOC pram | PERLOWN ASD HOUSE REERIIC Do  HOES SETTER. Rape yeaa wat | cyouryemaasandortteah ny’ Cal {ior dnom pp de Want | SSF fossa eed Serviees {senay open pen petri | Yoo tne nd je wae Yue ay  Groen pes bons enh on ey RAY STIR pose oe per ___ | QCMYRw cantare Sea  Feneest Mebee Momo 8, SITTER RayonanutAowaran | punyes weenie snd pon fat ball (eee Seana 230 Hee  Sactneesee {eee afgernoe ern pom pn ALL AROUND GOOD QLALITY WORK: fu | nse Os hows wg efeesrs eras se | mt -  eres EY) | oc SFT we ew os te ‘BAY SIT, OUME ST, CLEAN HOUSE Fi | Sine nai Uses so Saas (Seepacolsceioesresesiyayt | ment Retross oe Come nts ERE oan ow. ing OSE STING, te src mat Siti mowe can" | Siig  TANVSTER Eperenedioumee yard Sateen Cane Cope  [GMT WACLNG AND CLEANING pe) ‘ge mea Co a PB  ‘Tekinaromeunerwien yore om tore | ~~ Z i pl simak | NEED ABABY SIFTER: Cat nm Fst age | BRIDETOBE® Now pr? Nevis ot  tt Pevegemare om het Gt Kos  oh ene Mra Egeneceanl Aes | ove” Hong or 508 wenger  Tae a 20551 | pgemftne an ne oat enn | a wee ape ate GarERTNCTD aan sTTERS pow vow: | eyo Cal ee 5.  exe Tama ye age an ae Bet | te is coven NEEDAN EXPERIENCED BA SITRER Ca ee | rag yet Wl ae | preg ne Wena ‘ExpeRENCeDmAN SITTER poy | inn tcl doe mem mace Te | aseunsTanoean eater Cal tetyong hlten iysrremumgorates | Seedarcemoctnenmagate YC | fw 2 oi ten ees oo ap  nd gam ot Samoa eine op 1) 0  BarMedcene sane SANDIA HEIGHTS BRIDGE CLUB ‘Gaxawar Tow wow Twas || Join Us For Bridge!  Yonrplamaecaofseraema aire Couples Evening Reider ‘ener ee Tame mipowate Auer || Laden Daye Bridge q ‘st Saturday eed “cd Monday 2d Saturday a 4h Wednesday \ 4th Saturday GONG OCF OF TOW id ms Bad Thera 1st Monday ties Somenne porn Wow yt 2nd Friday Sed Wednesday Ietey Tae ceo our tgs Ca Rahn Trmntag ih SSS aaa ‘There ne rou forming eae fo wo ey  no (hay pony eet up a Sa Wadd oT  Page 16  aN  | PROFESSIONAL “jase REMODELING  Sandia tights Hemerwnsrs Rareiation  SHHA  ALBUL  COMER, KENNITH & LUCILLE 106 WHITETAIL. OR NE ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87122 