Happy  New  Year!  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  WINTER -1996  President's Message  The Executive  Comminee, which  consists of the  officers of the Board  of Direct0rs, has  been working on  potential revisions  to the By-laws  of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association.  Although most of the proposed changes relate to  ensuring internal consistency and readability,  one major change would require ratification of  any changes or additions at the Annual General  Meeting of the Association membership.  Currently, the By-laws may be changed  at either a general meeting or a meeting of the  Board. A discussion of the revisions is planned for  the February meeting of the Board with action in  April and, if the proposed change in the approval  process is approved by the Board, final action at  the annual meeting in June, 1996.  Plans for the development of the  vacant land located on the southeast comer  of Tramway Blvd. and Cedar Hill, consisting  of 19 housing lots accessed by a paved cul-de-sac  have been brought forth. The New Development  Committee has been tracking progress on this  subdivision and held an open torum meeting on  januaiy 25th with the developer, Joe Santangelo  of Sunshine Construction, the engineering firm  working on the site development plan and Sandia  Heights property owners adjacent to or within vis- ibility of the proposed site. The purpose of the  meeting was to inform property owners of the  plans, provide feedback on the site development  plan and determine the position the Association  should take with the County Planning Commis- sion (CPC) regarding the proposals. The site  development plan is an agenda item for the CPC  public meeting on February 7th at 9:00am in  the County Commission Room, One Civic  Plaza NW.  Way to go Sandia Heights! The SHHA  sponsored recycling program in January served  148 vehicles and generated the highest volume of  all cypes of material to be recycled yet. Keep it up!  There are several items of broad interest  to the community in this issue of The Grit that I  would like to emphasize:  Circle K Proposal - Please review the  letter from Carl Bottenus of Circle K Corporation  relative to the possible request for a liquor license.  Mr. Bonenus made a preliminaiy presentation at  the January Board meeting. The Board has taken  no position on the proposal at this time. As many  of you know, there have been rwo previous  anemptS to gain a license at this site. Both of the  requests were opposed by the Board and many  members of the Association. However, the opera- tion of Circle K has visibly improved since the  arrival of Mr. Bottenus, and in recognition of his  approach to the organization prior to application.  the Board feels that broad input from the member- ship is appropriate. Please convey your opinion  to Circle K and also to the Association office.  Architectural Review Information - Please note the request from the Architectural  Review Committee to comply with the covenants  by submitting plans for all types of exterior  modifications to the Committee for review.  It appears that many individuals who violate  covenants by not submitting plans are simply not  aware of the requirement to do so. The Committee  and Board are committed to providing information  to the membership so that voluntary compliance  will increase. It can be a real problem for home- owners to find out after a project has been started  that approval is required and a delay will result  while the required plans are reviewed.  There is a second categoiy of residents  who violate covenants or don't submit plans  because they feel the restrictions and architectural  review guidelines have not been fairly and equi- tably enforced in the past - or have had.some son  of unpleasant experience with the enforcement  process. The current Committee and Board intends  to be consistent, reasonable. fair and vigorous in  enforcing present covenants. We believe that  covenant compliance is imponant to the majority  of residents in order to preserve the unique char- acter of Sandia Heights and our property values.  It you are planning an exterior project or  simply want to ensure you are in compliance with  the covenants for your Uni~ call the Association  office for a copy of your covenants. We realize  that papers get lost or misplaced and since volun- tary compliance benefits the entire communicy  there will be no charge for replacement copies.  7  '  Traffic Safety Forum - There has been  considerable discUssion of speeding and speed  limits, pedestrian safety and other related issues in  the Sandia Heights community. The installation of  three speed humps by Bernalillo County as a way  of slowing traffic has provoked quite a reaction - very favorable and equally unfavorable. Both the  opponents and proponents of speed humps have  strong feelings and there are other issues as well.  '!be SHHA Board will sponsor a public forum  which will be attended by representatives of  Bernalillo County and will provide information to  members as well as an opponunity for all of us to  voice our opinions arid experiences. While some  of you have taken the time to write or call the  Association office this will be a convenient oppor- runity to hear from the County and to directly  convey information to County staff. There will be  no decisions made at this meeting. but it will be  an imponant part of decisions made in the furure.  '!be meeting will be held at the fire  station, February 9th, from 4-6 pm. Please  plan to attend; this meeting needs to be as repre- sentative as possible of community opinion.  FUnding of almost $700,oo:l has been  approved by the County Commission for irrigation  ,,.-------------1'  ~ SPECIAL MEETING  ~  •  Df IAlllA IEllilTS UllEIWIEIS ASSDCIATIOI  W  •  w  • 11.Ll.w:: SPHI llMIJS, SPHI IUMPS,  W  •  IDAllAFITT  W  • IAII: FllDAY, HllBAIY I  W  • IIMI: 4PM I ALIDDU IUPM I  W  • fiW: FIBI STATIDN·TI711 PASID DH  W  ~-----------·-4'  systems, erosion control and rurf for the  Altamonte Little League Field; development of a  soccer field at the North Dominga Baca site; and  a cafetorium for the new elementaty school.  An item of murual interest to North  Albuquerque Acres and Sandia Heights has been  favorably resolved. For many years Alameda has  been scheduled to connect with Tramway Blvd.  Over time, however development has occurred in  its path and Paseo de! None has emerged as  ahigher priority. In December of 1995, the  County proposed and the Urban Transporta- tion Planning & Policy Board voted lli!I to  extend Alameda as a four lane facility  between Eubank and Tramway.  The Disaict 8 Coalition is comprised of  neighborhood associations within the boundaries  of City Council Districr 8 which includes Glenwood  Hills. Tunoan, Antelope Run and others. SHHA  maintains an associate membership in the Coali- tion in order to cooperate on issues of murual  interest such as transponation. Our County  Commissioner, Barbara Seward also maintains an  coordinating relationship with City Councillor, Tun  Cummings. We believe that it will prove beneficial  to Sandia Heights to align itself with other neigh- borhood associations and will send a representa- tive to attend their monthly meetings.  Anne Yegge  Here's Your Chance  to Voice Concerns  about S~  Humps  anCJ Limits  By Rob Loughridge - Traffic & Safety  The speed humps installed last summer  on San Rafael and on Tramway Lane have pro- duced a full gamut of reactions. Some residents in  the immediate area feel that road safety has been  improved for all users - motorists, cyclists and  pedestrians. Some residents elsewhere in Sandia  Heights have asked that speed humps be installed  on their streets as well. However, there are others  who are unhappy with the speed humps, some  alleging damage to their vehicles and/or discom- fon to occupants. Many favor an increase in  speed limits from 15 mph. to 25 mph. What do  you think?  In order to evaluate community senti- ment, and to acquaint residents with the County's  approach to road safety and enforcement issues,  a special meeting of the SHHA is scheduled.  Representatives of Bernalillo County Traffic  Engineering and the Sheriff's Depanrnent will be  in attendance.  If you would like to learn more about how  the system works, or express your views, but are  unable to attend this information meeting, call  your SHHA Disaict Representative, or the Chair of  the Traffic & Safety Committee, Rob Loughridge  ("Lock-ridge") at 828-2808.  Wednesdays lOam - Noon  f ebruar!.J 14th  jerry Cramer  239 Spring Creek Court NE  856-6684  March 20th  Pat & Frank Moody  219 Spring Creek Lane NE  856-7419  April 17th  Martin & Sylvia lnkelas  1719 Quail Run Court NE  856-1183  All SHHA members welcome!  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  R©UNDHOUSE REP©RT  We greatly appreciate the opportunity to share our view from the Merry  Roundhouse with the citizens of Sandia Heights, which has one of the heaviest tax  burdens per indivi\iual in this State. With a current shortfall in the General Fund  revenues of approximately $65 million at the end of the fiscal year aune 30, 1995),  we are continuing to see a cash-flow shortage as we approach our regular  Legislative Session. We try to maintain a reserve margin of 5%, or $140 million,  and one major problem is the massive reduction in our reserve accounts. Although  there is always both upside and downside potential to the revenue situation, the  effects of the federal budget reductions combined with an extremely low level of  reserves puts New Mexico in a risky fiscal position that must be constantly moni- tored and analyzed. 1n hindsight, the Governor's vetoes (over 200 bills) resulted in  a "savings" to the State of over $50 million and helped the financial picture.  With all 112 legislative seats up for election in 1996 (70 in the House, and  42 in the Senate), we expect a great deal of activity in the thirty-day Session  (beginning January 16th) as the majority party spars with Governor Gary Johnson.  Although the state constitution requires lawmakers to limit legislative activity to  matters of finance and the State's next fiscal year budge~o~rngr can include  non-financial matters in his "message to the Legislatuy~  d." - S..~ fRfctji~ do so  in the area of education, economic development, cry~~v ~~·  welfare reform, gaming, and even some bills that h~ vh . l~-¢'~'  io'11.  i<!."-ti  ! ~  ·1~ 1  We look forward to receiving your though~ aM~p ·  1 "-rior to agd'aG°Ijng  the 1996 Legislative Session. Please feel free to conk . ~ SY..  o .e.zy!P¢'e.  Once the session starts, all legislators can be reached '\loog  -,~~p~fs main  switchboard: 986-4300. Thank you!  A~  Kip Nicely  State Rep/District 31  Torn Wray  Frank Bird  State Rep/District 23  State Senator/District 21  Contractor Evaluation Program for  SHHAMembers Needs Updating  Stuffed inside this issue of The Grit is a  Contractor Evaluation Form. The Association  office maintains a file of all submitted evaluation  sheets, both positive and negative, on various  contractors and services, however, many of the  files are no longer current. If you have recently  used a contractor and would like to inform your  neighbors of the type of service you received,  please fill in the form and return it to the SHHA  office. Better yet. keep this form as a master and  use it to make copies for sending in reports when- ever you have a service performed. The more  information in our files, the better the Association  THE SHHA BOARD  IS LOOKING FOR  SOMEONE TO CHAIR  THE COMMUNITY  EVENTS COMMIITEE  PLEASE CONTACT  ERIN AT THE OFFICE  296-1412  can serve its members. By submitting the evalua- tion form, you authorize the SHHA to provide  your name and phone number to any member of  the association needing feedback on a particular  contractor. If you'd like information on an evalua- tion or need additional forms, contact t~  Association office at 296-1412  ,  SHHA ~  BOARD MEETINGS  THE 2ND WEDNESDAY DJ EVERY MONTH  NEXT SCHEDULED MEETINGS:  HBRUARY 14  MARCH13  APRll 10  PASED DH NORTE FIRESTATIDN - 7:DDPM  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  WINTER - 1996  Know Who Represents Your Community ...  New Mexico  State Senator:  Tom Wray  856-1450  Mr. Wray is a senator in the New Mexico  State Legislature representing state senate  district 21 , comprised of over 37,000 people in  metropolitan Albuquerque. He is also a founding  partner in the energy consulting-project  development firm of Groves, Wray & Associates;  specializing in the provision of development  services for transmission and low-cost, reliable  power generation projects. Senator Wray worked  at Public Service Company of New Mexico for  over 17 years, holding numerous engineering and  management positions.  Senator Wray is a recognized proponent  of retail competition and the competitive sourcing  of electricity. He is a regular spokesman at numer- ous working groups and conferences on the  evolution and restructuring underway in the US  electric utility industry.  The senator's firm has led the project  development and management for the Navajo  Nation, of a 400 mile, lXXJMW, 500 kv transmis- sion facility across Arizona for use by western  utilities and others. Known as the Navajo  Transmission Project, the ownership structure of  this unique independent transmission project is  unprecedented in that a major pan of the facility  is planned to be owned outright by the Navajo  Nation. The firm is also involved with other inde- pendent transmission development within the  WSCC with Dames & Moore, and has established  a working pannership with Diamond Energy- Mitsubishi for electric generation development in  the western US.  Tom is a member of the Senate Rules  Committee and Senate Conservation Committee,  as well as interim legislative committees including  Indian Affairs, Integrated Water and Resource  Planning (Retail Wheeling and Utility  Restructuring), and Revenue Stabilization and  Tax Policy. He holds masters degrees in both  business administration from the University of  New Mexico, and electrical engineering from the  University of Colorado, and is a registered profes- sional engineer in New Mexico.  Loi---· ..  New Mexico  State  Representative:  Kip Nicely  296-9277  Kip Nicely is a Financial Advisor for First  American Asset Management specializing in  investments for corporations, foundations, institu- tions, and high net-wotth individuals. He is the  Minority Whip in the House, and serves on the  Legislative Council, Education Committee, and  Voters & Elections Committee. During the interim  sessions, he is a member of the Science,  Technology, Energy, and Defense Conversion  Committee, as well as the Legislative Education  Study Committee.  He holds a Masters of Science degree in  Systems Management from the University of  Southern California (USC), and a Bachelor's  degree in Naval Science from the U.S. Naval  Academy (Annapolis). Kip is also a Commander  in the Naval Reserves.  . .. And How to Reach Them  Uslt'{}S&SCiesltlCi lle"1lti Clostlgs!  Cd t<XT SW)IAIEKJHTS SPfQ/llJjf fON la Male/ 1¥:;/Nft;_  Best lnlPl9Sf Rotes. crd /leloOollal Dole!  New Mexico  State  Representative:  Frank Bird  823-4770  Frank is married to the former Jane Trujillo  of Raton, New Mexico, They have two children  and four grandchildren. He is a 1958 graduate of  the College of St. Joseph, Albuquerque. He served  in the United States Marine Corps and is a Korean  War veteran,  His experience spans a 26 year career  with IBM, including several management posi- tions, 18 months as an international business  consultant to New Zealand banks, and President  of a 50 person precision optical manufacturing  company. He grew up working in his family's  small farm and ranch business.  In 1980, Frank was State Chairman for the  Reagan for President Committee. Previously, he  served as Otero County Republican Chairman for  six years.  safe place to explore  Don't forget,  our application deadline  is February 15!  r more info=~~se call us at  Sandia Prep is an indt:pcndcnt co-ul. lthool: with a  college prep program for grades 6 - 12.  Sandia Prep• 532 Osum. NE Albuquerque, NM 87113  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY Pl)BLICATION OF  Love Your Little (3/4 lb.) Feathered Neighbor  My favorite neighbor is a native home- steader who is frequently misunderstood and  under appreciated. Most people in the Southwest  know that a favored food of the Greater  Roadrunner is lizards. But do you know what else  they eat? Twelve reasons why I appreciate my  feathered neighbor is that some of its favorite  foods are: 1. small snakes, including rattlesnakes,  2. scorpions, 3. taranculas, 4. spiders, 5. mice,  6. rats, 7. gophers, 8. grasshoppers, 9. centipedes,  10. millipedes, 11. crickets and 12 caterpillars.  This native exterminator dwells, at no extra  charge, in Sandia Heights and we should do  everything we can to see that they continue to  thrive here. However, humans are not known for  being good neighbors to native animals and birds,  but we have the power to change that  Geococcyx calffomianus have lived in the  Southwest for at least I 00,000 years as evi- denced by fossils found in the Rancho La Brea  and McKittrick asphalt beds in California. Even  back then, they preferred to exercise their exper- tise in being fleet of foot rather than flying for  their primary mode of transporration. This makes  good sense when you think about it Looking ac  their favorite fare, you note that most of their food  lives on the ground. Running on the ground not  only brings them close to their prey, but by skill- fully using their wings as they run, they flush  insects from their hiding places perched on planes  and stems. These birds earned their common  name of roadrunner back in the early days when  they were most often seen running down the road  in front of horses or horse-drawn vehicles.  ~~  The narural habitat for roadrunners is  · w  t e see here. namely desen with sparse veg- \e'tation.mte also live in thickets and even on the  fffn~ .  .s: of woods or forests. Roadrunners are  founcfJr  sea eve up, to 7,000' and rarely at  8,000 elevation. Contrary; to popular opinion,  roadrunnel'S'd not nest on' t~ound. Instead,  they nest from thre.e.t0 fifteen f~ a 'r e Pie eanh  in some large slifu • nee,,'<Q  cacrus~~lthough  roadrunners do not usually,  : ..,!;"lilid . ,  Apache plume, the small shiubs  provide-she - ._,...,  ter from the sun, wind and other- emeniffor " - adultS and shon term homes for juveniliroa~ ~  ners who are out of the nest, but not mature  enough to live on their own.  Roadrunners are ground cuckoos, and all  members of the family are protected by the  Migratory Bird Treaty Act between the United  States, Canada and Mexico. Because their food  consists largely of insects, they also come under  the protection of the state law which protectS all  such insectivorous birds. Greater Roadrunners live  west of the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean  and from nonhern California into the middle of  Mexico. Roadrunners are most common in New  Mexico, Arizona, Texas, California and Mexico. As  the population increases in these area of Nonh  America, with more sprawling urban areas and  irrigated farms, the existence of roadrunners is  threatened as their habitatS disappear. A hundred  years ago roadrunners were commonly seen by  travelers in California, but since the Sacramento  Valley has been convened to farming and large  cities taking more and more land, now they are  rarely seen. The covenant in Sandia Heights of  leaving the area in itS natural vegetation state is  vital to their continued population with us.  Roadrunners rarely migrate, so we need to protect  the ones we have.  Each adult male establishes his territory  which he monitors and patrols with regularity.  Those of us who watch roadrunners know that  we can set the clock by them as you can a securi- ty guard as he makes his rounds. "Our" roadrun- ner comes ac noon or at three in the afternoon.  When does yours come? As he covers his  territory he is looking for food, prospecting for a  mate and keeping ocher male roadrunners from  his territory. Female roadrunners are not often  seen. They hunt enough to feed themselves and  locate shelter, but do not travel far from where  they hatched and fledged.  Roadrunners mate in the spring and early  summer. Males can be seen perched on the edge  of a house. cooing for his mate to come to him.  The average dutch size of the white eggs that are .  a little smaller than pullet eggs is three to five. Of  those, the pair will be lucky if two or three survive  to fledge from the nest and fewer live to become  juveniles making it on their own. Scarcity of food  and predators, including man, are the greatest  threat to roadrunners. As roadrunners are known  to eat snakes, the snakes return the favor and eat  roadrunner eggs or nestlings if the opportunity  presents itself.  Warner Brothers did not do the roadrun- ners any favors when they conceived their car- toon of Roadrunner and Wylie E. Coyote. A road- runner does not look like an ostrich or emu as  depicted on the screen, nor do they cry •Beep,  beep, • nor do they eat bird seed. Other miscon- ceptions, myths and legends have also gained  popularity.  We have the "corral myth.· It has been  said that if a roadrunner spies a sleeping snake  (the story sounds better if it is a large rat- tlesnake), he will run and work and tug to build a  corral of cholia segments around the slumbering  reptile. Upon awakening, the snake will impale  on the thorns, killing itself in its effons to  roadrunner da  With OUtStre  bird runs at the sn e;  snake strikes at the rapid!  flies, leaps and twists out o  rages on and on. Dust thickens  continues and in all accounts rel  the roadrunner was the winneL  tion the bird attacks, head ftat  wings tensely spread. Like a m  snake into striking easily swings out o  through the layers of feathers, but the roadrun- ner's heavy bill can crush the reptile's skull.  A misconception dating back almost  one hundred years, is that hunters claimed that  roadrunners killed large numbers of quail, snatch- ing young ones from their parents broods or steal- ing eggs from their nests. The men became so  incensed that they killed roadrunners on sight,  because the hunters wanted to kill the quail them- selves for game. Several ornithologists became  irate over the bounties being placed on roadrun- ners so the contents of stomachs of over a  hundred roadrunners were inventoried. The major  remains in the digestive traces were listed previ- ously: lizards, snakes, grasshoppers, crickets,  spiders, mice, etc.  On a rare occasion a roadrunner may  kill a quail, other baby bird or swallow ari avian  egg, but this is not normal behavior. Only when  very hungry or other unusual circumstances, does  a roadrunner eat other birds. Man sometimes  upsets the balance of nature by creating unusual  situations. Here in the populated foothills if food is  scarce and a roadrunner sees a bunch of small  birds, easy prey, feeding on the ground under a  feeder filled with seeds, a bird may be snatched.  The roadrunner cannot be blamed for taking  advantage of such a situation. Their good deeds  far outweigh the bad.  Roadrunners provide the best pest control  we could request to rid our yards and the arroyos  of snakes and mice. Yet, in New Mexico I have  heard of youth and adultS persecuting and killing  our state bird for spon or in anger because they  blame roadrunners for killing other birds, such as  quail and juncos. Surely none of our Sandia  HeightS residentS are guilty of such illegal, cruel  and counter-productive behavior.  South of our southern border in Mexico  the roadrunner is called Paisano which means  "countryman." Dobie also wrote, ·An old Mexican  in nonhern Coahuila told me that one time he  found four paisano eggs in a nest and put them  under a hen and hatched them out They grew up  to be pees around his ] one cabin out in the chap- arral. One time after dinner, he said, he went to  take a siesta -u  a runty mesquite tree not far  from the cabin  as sleeping soundly when  the n  ' paisanos awoke him,  )at  ~- a scare; then he dis- my doetor how much it  itten by a rattlesnake. He  a minor rattlesnake bite  ed and five hundred dol- cost varies, depending on  a funeral the family wanes,"  Like a matador, it waits and feints till the ene  tires: then kills with swift skill.• It is  the snake to sink its fangs into the  do live among us in Sandia Heights;  my husband and I have seen them on some of  our long walks, within a foot or two of the road.  Can we afford not to have the roadrunner as a  neighbor? The next time you see a roadrunner, tip  your hat or wave your hand and say "Greetings,  good neighbor and varmint hunter!"  ~..,~ Nancy Olsen lives in Sandia Heights  IJ'd  ··'lJ!lS';esearching a book on roadrunners.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  All Exterior Modifications Must Be  Approved by ARC  By Bill Stabler and Jon Cashwell - Co-Chairs, Architectural Review Committee  Many residents are not  aware that in addition to major  remodeling projects, this covenant  applies to many smaller projects  such as re-stuccoing; re-roofing;  landscape projects: new fencing:  painting: garage conversions:  installation of sheds, decks, pools  or equipment such as solar panels  and air conditioners: and all other  exterior alterations or additions.  Preservation of the  unique character, quality and  beauty of the Sandia Heights  community is dependent on our  adherence to the covenants and  also on a neighborhood spirit of  pride and cooperation, Each unit  41~111iiia ..  illil*llllil~~-.. ~.Y•..l•WIWM within Sandia Heights has its  •  own set of covenants.  Copies of the covenants  The Architectural Review Committee  (ARC) of the Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association, wants to remind all Sandia Heights  residents that the Deeds of Restrictions  (covenants) for each of the approximately 30  units in Sandia Heights state that all exterior alter- ations to any residence or property requires  review and approval by the ARC before any con- struction or site preparation can commence.  or applications for plan submittal  can be obtained by calling the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association office at 296-1412.  Residents are advised to plan ahead. While every  attempt is made to expedite the review process,  committee members are all volunteers, many with  full time jobs, and the committee has only 30  days from the date of receipt of the complete plan  application to review and respond.  •  ...  •.•  Whatever the NEED,  whatever the occasion,  WE'LL FIND YOU  the perfect item.  All you HAVE TO DO  is ask.  Weekdays, Weekends,  at Home or Away.  EVENING GLAMOUR or  Casual Elegance.  W INTER -1996  RMBS  .-ws  cm&lllMI  ·mfllW1lll  !WIES·  (matrf  IS.111121  Ill. Wllll 111111S  alAI .. 111111S  ·HKlll!lll,  can••  IWS  uws  mllllPWllC  SIAPimu!IC Rim/  ASPlllll CIMWD  laAl.llXIS  llWllllS -- mRlllPW  1'1'UW• MU.  lWIEllllll  WHERE: CIRCLE I ON TRAMWAY  WHEN:  1ST SATURDAY OF THE  MONTH, 9AM·12 NOON  Wut II belp? Call 85&·1593.  L-------------------~  Mi  THE GRIT  On the Wild Side  Note.from the Editor: Sandia Heights residents living  along the border ef the Cibola National Forest have expenenced  the tragic loss ef beloved pets in recent months due to our wild  inhabitants. They wish to warn other residents about the dangers  ef letting pets roam.free in our UIJ!enced mountainous tmain.  Please report any problems to NM Game & Fish.  BearWatch Honored  with Award  )an Hayes, founder and President of BearWatch, accepted  an award for the Ojo Grande Neighborhood Association for  Networking and Communication. It was presented by the League  of Neighborhoods at their annual awards banqueL The League is  sponsored by the city of Albuquerque and Bernalillo County.  "BearWatch was kind of an odd fit,· Hayes said, "because most of  the awards were for interaction within a neighborhood and  BearWatch reaches out to the whole community.·  Since its inception a year ago, BearWatch has grown to a  membership of 500 people. "The purpose of the organization is to  educate people who live near wildlife haunts and habitats, so that  people can coexist with the animals who were here first, rather  than eliminating them from the forest environment" BearWatch  sends out quarterly newsletters, organizes seminars, works with  both state and federal officials to promote educational programs to  the public, and trains "stewards" to share wildlife information with  their neighbors. Other areas of New Mexico with similar  wildlife/human conflicts have shown considerable interest in the  BearWatch program.  For just $5.00 a year, you can  learn how to love and live with  our Sandia Mountain black bears!  Call Joy Solow  · '3 M Q  of Sandia Heights  ().\  (//)~  at 856-6466.  ~ ,  .. ~  She'll be glad to  ((]  - ·  answer questions (/)  . .  ~ :J  and send you all  ·  the information  m  ,- on BearWatch  'V'  z  - and how to keep  (S)  ~  bears at a distance.  ~ r\f\10  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  By Mark Birkenhauser - New Mexico Department of Came & Fish  My first encounter with a wild bobcat was a memorable experience, and a pleas- ant one. Most recently, one Sandia Heights couple had an encounter that was neither  pleasant nor one they would like to remember. Their first meeting with a bobcat was  tragic, and resulted in the bobcat being trapped and relocated to a mountain range far  away from Sandia Heights.  In New Mexico, the bobcat is listed as a protected forbearer. That means all resi- dents aged 12 or over and all non-residents must have a trapper's license before hunting  or trapping bobcats. Until recent slowdowns In the fur market, bobcat pelts were prized,  since other spotted and striped cats are rare and protected from trapping.  How about a little bobcat biology? Bobcats are normally solitary animals except  during breeding time in the spring. One to four young bobcats, called kittens, are born in  May or June in a secluded den of dried vegetation. Often these dens are located on the  edges of riparian areas.  The bobcat is most active at night, resting by day in any convenient shelter, such  as a rock ledge, brush pile, hollow tree or log. Many people never see bobcats because of  their nocrumal habits and the fact that their fur blends in with its background during both  day and night  Although it is capable of climbing, the bobcat feeds primarily on the ground level.  A majority of the bobcat's diet consists of cottontail ra)lbits. When numbers of rabbits  decline greatly, bobcats feed on mice, rats, voles, squirrels, chipmunks and all kinds of  birds, especially ground-nesting birds. Not a swift animal (top speed about 15 mph), the  bobcat must rely on stealth to get close enough to its prey to suddenly pounce on it,  killing it with a bite to the neck. The bobcat's outstanding eyesight is certainly its most  irnponant sense, but it also uses its keen sense of hearing in hunting prey.  Similar to house cats, bobcats have sharp, curved, retractable claws. Usually with- drawn, the claws extend for grabbing and slashing. They sharpen their claws like domes- tic cats do, by scratching them on wood to remove dead material. Adult bobcats have very  few natural enemies, however, some adults cats are occasionally preyed upon by moun- tain lions. Kittens are a different story, and are frequently taken by mountain lions, coy- otes and owls.  New Mexico's bobcat population has been estimated at 50,000 animais. In the  past, trappers were taking about 6,000 bobcats per year. However, due to decreased  demand and lower market prices. the number of bobcats harvested every year is dropping.  I will never forget the first bobcat I {!Ver encountered. The way it moved, how qui- etly it approached, and how quickly it disappeared. Maybe someday you will be as lucky,  and have a pleasant encounter with New Mexico's only sported cat.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  WINTER - 1996  UPDATE:  SMC Waits  Word on  New Claim  Evidence  By John Thomas - Public Relations Committee, SMC  The Sandia Pueblo's land claim con- tinues in the courts. A report confinning the  Tarr Decision (see below), this time from a  new direction, is expected this month or early  February, according to Sandia Mountain  Coalition (SMC) co-chair and local attorney  Anita MilleL  A historian is examining all docu- ments relating to the Pueblo of Sandia's land  grant at the New Mexico Records Center and  Archives for the US Forest Service. These  include nineteenth century documents chal- lenged by the Pueblo, Miller said, and a final  report to the Forest Service is expected within  the neX! 30 days.  Meanwhile, Miller said, "the judge  hasn't made a decision" on the Department of  Interior's motion to dismiss the case or  motions to intervene by the SMC and the  Bernalillo County Board of Commissioners.  Carole Dinkins of Vinson and Elkins of  Houston and Washington, DC is the "attorney  0£ record· connected to the case, and will  notify the SMC as soon as there is any  "motion" in the case.  Because of its impact on Sandia  Pueblo's land daim, a new issue - Indian gam- bling - is being disc1ls5ed informally by small  groups within the SMC. A spokesperson for  one of the groups urged all SMC members to  contact their elected representatives and make  their views on Indian gambling known.  The United Scates acquired che tem·- tory that is now the State ef New Mexico  through che '/i'eaty ef Guadalupe Hidalgo on  February 2, 1848, ending the war with  Mexico. The validity ef a survey ef public  lands done by the Secretary ef che Interior in  1858 was challenged by the Pueblo.  Ralph w. nm; Secretary ef the Interior,  in his decision ef December, 1988 con- cluded chat the Pueblo had not met its bur- den ef demonsrrating that this survey was  fraudulent or grossly erroneous.  2nd Annual SHHA  f ufures for Children - 9600 Tennyson NE  Nalional Dislribulinq will off er over 30 diff erenl wines. Ref reshmenls will be provided.  Reservalions and payment mus! be made in advance.  ------ Pick up prepaid lickels at !he door, no lickels will be sold there.  $10  per person  (Musi be over 21)  Don 'I miss !his deliqhtf ul even I!  ...........................................  Please respond before f ebruary 24.  Sponsored by !he  Sandia Heiqhls  Homeowners  Associalion  \!1'ine T1tJttnP't  RESERVATION  r--------------------~----------------,  Lsf all who will offend:  Nome __________ _  Nome ____________ _  Nome __________ _  Nome ____________ _  Add •• ,,------------------------- Phone ----------- I cePfifq lhaf each pe•son affendinq is over 2 1 qea•s of aqe.  SiqnaluPe --------------- Amounl enclosed ----- {$10 pe• person)  Send o•der and check lo: Wine Taslinq, Sandia Heiqhls Homeowne'5 Assn.  P. 0. Box 20021, ABQ, NM 87154-0021  L--- --- - --- ---------- -- --- - -----------~  MARCHSTH  NATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY  MFEMINIST/HUMANIST  PERSPECTIVES ON THE MEDIA:  MARCH 4TH, lOAM  "FIRST MONDAY" SERIES  MARGIE O'BRIEN  THE WAY WE'D LIKE IT TO BE" ~.to (!J~  NATIONAL JURIED SHOW  ~  FISHER GALLERY  1620 CENTRAL SE  292-3675  WILL DEMONSTRATE  WILDLIFE DRAWING  FREE AND OPEN TO PUBLIC  BARDEAN GALLERY  2125 LOUIS IAN A NE  881-1122  Illumine and hallow your hearts; let them not be profaned by  the thorns of hate or the thistles of malice. Ye dwell in one  world, and have been created through the operation of one  Will. Blessed is he who mingleth with all men in a spirit of  utmost kindness and love.  Baha u' llah  For more information about the Bahai Faith please call 856-1655. For a  :ulecti.on of ruorded mnsages you can access in privacy you may call  856-29 JJ. Tltose outside the Alhuquerque metropoliJan area can call  J..100-684-#993.  THE GRIT  Sandia Heights - A Very"Smart Spot" to Live  TOP 5 SMART SPOTS:  1. STANFORD, CA  2. CHEVY CHASE, MD  3. WINNETKA, IL  4. SCARSDALE, NY  5. PORTOl.A VALLEY, CA  A survey by American Demographics  Magazine lists the Sandia Heights neighborhood  among the top 101 ·smanest Spots" in the United  States. A publication recently released a list of bor- oughs, cities, towns and villages with the highest  proportions of people age 25 or older with bachelor's  degrees, including those who went to graduate  school. Sandia Heights was No. 68.  Our community has 2,512 residents age 25  and older according to 1990 census data, and 65.5%  of those adults fit the educational criteria described  above. Bob Murphy, chairman of Alvarado Realty, said his company and Sandia Peak  'll'am Co. were the original developers of the community during the l 960's. He said the  area has become a hot spot for professionals in recent years. ·A lot of people here are with  Sandia Corporation, or they are other scientific or digital people. There are a lot of doctors  and higher education people here.·  Sandia Heights also ranks 13th in the survey's "Restless and Smart" category,  which lists 20 places with the lowest percentage of people who-were born in their current  community. Only 22.3% of residents were born in the area. "Mobility clearly is a trait of  the residents of the best-educated places," said American Demographics.  The list is limited to communities with at least 2500 residents and does not include  places that are subdivisions of other communities already on the list. the study found that  most educated Americans concentrate.in coTI~e to  and"\lpsca)e suburbs. Those on the  list collectively account for less than 2% of the nation's college graduate population.  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  HOME REMODELING  "The Best New Home May  Be the One You're Living In."  Take Action!  DESIGN BUILD means our clients receive professional  design, careful planning, detailed specifications, firm pricing  and quality construction for over 15 years.  DESIGN TO FINISH - All In One Place/  No Down Payment I No Equity ~red / 0% Down, 10.99%APR on approved credle. 180 months.  ~  'Im/in  Call Today! 883-4040  or V1s1t our Design Center  2426 Washington N E  DESIGN RHIODEUNG IUC  (Just South of Mcnaul)  On Your New Years Resolution  World Gym Fitness Center  is minutes from your front door!  • Weight Training  • Treadmills  •Fit.steps  • FREE Childcare  • Exercise Programing  • Aerobics  • Llfecycles  • Indoor Tanning  • Personal Training  • Nutritional Advice  World Gym Fitness Center  is right in your neighborhood  at the Mountain Run Shopping Center  5850 Eubank NE  292-4496  Receive student rates with this coupon  during the month of February!  Offer exp. 2/'29196 Not Valid With Any Other Offer.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~  r  < TELL US WHAT YOU WANT... >  ~  ~  ~ The Bernalillo County Environmental Health Department r  ~  has contracted with the University of New Mexico  ~  ~ to conduct focus group discussions with Bernalillo County r  ~  constituents about the types of information,  ~  ~ media materials and services they would like to receive r  ~  from the Environmental Health Department.  ~  ~  r  ~ A focus group for Sandia Heigt its residents is planned for: ~  ~  r  ~  DATE:  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15  ~  ~  TIME:  7-8PM  r  ~  PLACE: FIRE STATIOtt #5  ~  ~  11700 PASEO DEL HORTE  r  ~  ~  ~  A group siZe of 10-12 is desirable.  r  ~ Please call Corinne at 292-5899 to confirm your attendance. ~  ~  We would like to hear from you.  r  ~  ~  ~r~r~r~r~r~r~r~r~r~r~r~r  !la  ·BAC·  BIILARTMAN  Real F.state Broker  Providing excptiona! service  Rm<1<n1;.1  zn your interest!  Luxury Rosid<ntial  ~~::'rcl:i  Office: 823-6797  ~  Home: 856-1316  ~  Fax: 823-2571  Albuquerque  & Bernalillo County  Household Hazardous  Waste Collection Center  is on its normal winter  schedule and will be  open che fust weekend  of each monch chrough  February.  The center accepts all household  hazardous wstes except che following: explosives,  biomedical and radioactive wastes, compressed  gases (besides aerosols, used motor oil, automo- tive batteries and wastes from businesses.  Its hours are 8:30am to 4:30pm  Fridays and 8;30am to 3:30pm Saturdays.  The center will ret:µm to Its weekly opera- tional hours In March.  For more information, call che Household  hazardous Waste Hotline at 34 5-1650 or che ABQ  Environmental Healch Department at 768-2600  WINTER - 1996  Rescue •......................................... 4&  Utility Company Assist.................. 62  Construction Sites.......................... 33  Vacant Houses (For Sale, etc.)........ 35  Specials (Extra patrols/observation) 70  Homeowners on Vacation ............. 2184  TOTAL CALLS ••• , ........................... 4128  Total Mileage ............................ 48600  Dar.s Security Vehicle in Shop ••••••• 8.5  r-----------------------------------------,  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I Bernalillo County - 768-4967  Animal Control - 873-6706  I  : Crime Stoppers-841-9400  Hazardous Waste Hotllne-345-1650 l  1 Sheriff Department- 768-4160  Poison Info Center- 843-2551  I  1 Sheriff Bowdich-768-4100  ~  Environmental Health Dept.-768-2600 I  L.- - - --- - --SNIP AND SAVE! ~  • - --- - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - -.J  THE GRIT  Riordan Subdivision Moves Ahead  ' /  Slowly By John Thomas - - V errrry  Chairman, Public Relations Committee, SMC  Several groups are negotiating vigor- ously for 160 acres known as the caulkins  Estate, some known, some new, some sur- prising. At press time, Guy Riordan said he  expected to complete the plat for a proposed  subdivision "within the next two days."  Earlier this fall, Riordan and his part- ners purchased the 160 acres for a reported  $250,000, posting it with 'No Trespassing'  signs and notifying the Forest Service by mail  that the property had changed hands and  was "off limits."  The land had reportedly been at the  top of the Forest Service's acquisition list  since creation of the Wilderness area in 1978  because it sits across the Piedra Lisa Trail,  closing the trail roughly halfway between the  south trailhead and the watertank near Piedra  Lisa Spring. Riordan is reportedly "astound- ed" that the land wasn't purchased by a  federal agency, namely the US Forest Service.  "If at all possible, this land needs to  be acquired for the public," said Riordan, who  describes himself as "a hunter, a fisherman  and an environmentalist - to a point" in  interviews with the local press.  Riordan said he expected to present  the plat to the Sandoval County Board of  Commissioners for approval sometime within  the next 30 days.  Although Riordan had suggested  earlier his year that there was a "strong  possibility" of development work beginning  in January, he said his group was deliberately  not working as fast as it could to develop the  area in order to "work with the agencies."  Central to this work is negotiation of a  three-way trade between the US Forest  Service, the Bureau of Land Management  (BLM) and Riordan's group, which is report- edly frustrated with the slow pace of  negotiations with federal agencies.  ·Agencies have a different timetable  than business has," Riordan told the  Albuquerque journal. "In business, we're  used to doing things very rapidly. That could  affect how things tum out."  Riordan said his group had identified  parcels of land it would like and that the BLM  had identified parcels of Forest Service Land it  would like. Now, says Riordan, the ball is in  the Forest Service's court.  Another player is the Wilderness Land  'Ihlst, a Colorado-based non-profit organiza- tion that acquires private Land and transfers  ownership to the US Forest . Service.  According to Riordan, the Trust has  "expressed an interest" in the 160 acres. It is  not the ortly group with an interest, however.  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Although Riordan will not identify or  comment on the tribe's role in these negotia- tions, other independent sources confinn that  Sandia Pueblo has approached Riordan's  group repeatedly through a local real estate  agency. According to the source, Sandia  Pueblo's business arm has offered Riordan  and his partners $750,000 for the land.  However, Riordan said this week that  he is "optimistic" that the trade between the  two federal agencies and his group can be  worked out "benefitting the public good," and  that his group is agreeable to such a trade "as  long as we don't get hurt financially."  Last October, the Sandia Mountain  Coalition passed a resolution supporting  Forest Service acquisition of the Caulkins  Estate and its addition to the Sandia  Mountain Wilderness Area.  TH E SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  AViewfrom  the Ranger's  Station  By Floyd Thompson Ill - District Ranger  It is good to be officially back to  work. I regret having to close Many sites we  normally have open in the winter, but budget  negotiations directed otherwise. Fortunately,  our concession partners were allowed to con- tinue their operations under pennit which  meant the Ski Area, Tram, Crest House and  capulin Snow Play Area stayed open for  business. We are thankful we experienced no  major vandalism during the furlough period,  except for a few concentrated incidents in  Juan Tabo Basin and Las Huertas. There was  a lot of trash everywhere.  I have been meeting with several  groups and individuals lately to begin a  dialogue on whether the time has arrived to  form a non-profit group to help support and  guide our volunteer programs and other pro- jects on the Mountain. I have always liked a  term I picked up from Senators Bingaman  and Domenici - that the Sandia District is  one large potential living classroom for the  Albuquerque metropolitan area and the sur- rounding communities. Our District enjoys a  tremendous array of volunteer help currently,  but those volunteers take support, time and  on-the-ground leadership. We also have a  booming program of outreach with schools  and educational groups, but our resources  are stretched to the limit. ls there a place for  a local non-profit organization whose mis- sion is to support the vision of the Sandias as  a dynamic "Living Classroom" that is active- ly involved in shaping the character of  young and old alike? Should some of our  local community support be directed home- ward to our backyards which are crying out  for attention?  I recently saw where Mayor Chavez  of Albuquerque asked for comments on what  •  the vision of Albuquerque should be in the  future. I applaud this effort and hope you will  make an effort to provide input. I learned that  the East Mountain Area Association, headed  by Mr. Fred Rael, has asked for similar input  from East Mountain residents. just recently I  also learned Placitas residents and the Greater  Bernalillo Chamber of Commerce have started  to band together to ask what they can do as a  community to make a difference in our own  backyard. These are outstanding trends - what a way to start 1996. Forest Supervisor,  Jeanine Derby, has initiated a similar effort for  the Cibola National Forest by asking for input  on how the Sandia, Manzanita, and other  mountain ranges in Central New Mexico  should be managed.  Folks, there is a new spirit in the land.  I say it is time we celebrate our common her- itage in the land and find strength in our own  community. Too often I feel our community  takes the mountain, and land in general, for  granted. This is dangerous thinking. Some far- sighted people who preceded us made sure all  people would have a chance to know wildness  and the beaucy of nature right at our doorstep.  What metropolitan areas of our size can boast  of such beauty so close to their homes - only  a handful. National Forests preserve and co - serve our lieritage and our future.  As we enter the new year, we Will  need to remember another man's words of  almost a cenrury past. Especially when it  :omes to issues on how public land should be  managed, we will need to think like-a moun- tain as well as a corrununity - not just me,  myself and I. It coLild be Aldo 1.eopold, but no,  this time I am remembering the words our  Regional Forester, Chip cartwright, has l]ang- ing in his office froll\..our first Chief, Gifford  Pinchot. On June 14, 1907, Pinchot wrote:  "7here are many great interests on  the National Forests which sometimes con- flict a little. 7hey must all be made to.fit into  one another so that the machine runs  smooth{y as a whole. It is eften necessary Jor  one man to give wqy a little here, another a  little there. But by giving wqy a little at pre- sent they both pTQ/it by it a great deal in the  end National Forests exist todey because Ole  people want them. 7b make them accomplish  the most good, the people themselves must  make clear how they want them run. •  To realize that vision we must have  informed and involved citizens who are will- .  ~  En03nce"  <I  N  PM·KO I  Experience a higher quality of life.  p  Only minutes from work and schools, as well as from the  ~ d  noise, traffic. and congest.ion of the city, is the tranquillity  ~  you just might be ready for.  l-40(East)  PAA-KO Communities, located on the historic Turquoise Trail,  or- encompasses over 3 ,600 acres of beautiful pirion,juniper.  and cedar forest, and offers spectacular panoramic views.  ro leam more call:  WINTER - 1996  ing to think as a community in concert with  the land. I think helping build the vision of the  Sandias as a "Living Classroom· goes a long  way to actualize that vision. As a first step,  make your comments known - send in your  thoughts on how we can continue to make the  Sandia/Manzanita Mountains a rich and vital  part of Albuquerque and surrounding commu- nities. Send them to Mayor Chavez, the East  Mountain Area Association and to me here at  the Sandia Ranger's District Office in Tijeras.  As you have time, give some thought to what  type of non-profit organization could best  compliment our existing volunteer efforts on  the Mountain and the work of existing groups  such as: Friends of Tijeras Pueblo; Friends of  Placitas Escarpment; Sandia Mountain  Coalition; Sandia BearWatch; New Mexico  Volunteers for the Outdoors; HawkWatch,  International; Sandia Mountain Wildlife and  Conservation Association and countless others.  Thank you.  DID YOU KNOW YOU CAN RFSERVE  AN AREA FOR GROUP EVENfS?  cedro Peak campground. Reserve  for 24 hours from l !AM -1 !AM. Divided into  two areas with shelters .  Jay Loop. capacity of 100 at one  time. 27 parking spaces; 12 tables; 2 serving  tables; 4 grills; 1 fire ring; water hydrant;  restrooms. All facilities are barrier free. Robin  l.oop.150atonetirne. 41 parking spaces; 18  tables; 2 serving tables; 4 grills; 1 fire ring;  water i;\yd.rant; restrooms. All fucilities - banier  free;'Fee is based on the number ln gr~.  Ranges from $50 for 50/ $145 for 150.  Deadman campground. New as of  MayJ, 1996. Reserve for24 hours ata time  from l lAM- l!AM. $35.00 forup to 70. Does  not have water or a playing field. 5 tables; 3  grills; restrooms. Away from the highway.  oak flat Premier group reservation  picnic ground (day use only- no camping).  Available from 8:30 AM to 1 OPM daily, May I  to October 31 each year. Six separate areas with  capacities raajng from 60-800. Fees range  from $35 for 60 (without a shelter) to $450 for  800. All sites offer wate~ restrooms, tables,  grills and access to playing fields.  We also reserve space in many of our  other picnic grounds for smaller groups. Call the  Ranger Station at 1-800-280-2267. •:  Oevek>ped by  ROGER COX 6 ASSOCIA.TCS, INC.  Property development  Residential &  commercial sales  Apartment leasing &  management  Commercial leasing &  management  1717 Louisiana Blvd. NE  Nick Thompeon' 2~2800 (office)  Sune 205  · 1 - 30 acre heavily-wooded ""'"  • Communtty water syst.em  "'"1·264-4433 (mol>I<) or  Nbuquerque, NM 87110  · Views. >Aews. "1ew5!  · AH underground ut.ilttJes  DaveWe5ley. 28H900(~offlce)  • 20 minvt.e5 to Winrock Mall  · Paved COU'lt:.y roads  Of" 1-264-2546 (mobile)  505•268•2800  ifj  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Love the Outdoors?  Bighorns are  Back  Become an NMVFO!  By Harry Beckoff- Sandia Heights Resident and SHHA member  What a great year  for New Mexico sheep.  Desen Bighorns will be  back in the Sandias,  thanks to all those who  worked so diligently to  make this happen.  One of the features which enticed me to  seule in Sandia Heights in October 1986, was its  proximity to the beautiful open space area of  Alben G. Simms Park - Elena Gallegos Picnic Area  and its access to the Sandia Mountain wilderness  trails. During the years that followed, I frequently  hiked the various trails; taking for granted their  well-maintained status. Subsequently, l learned  that our enjoyment of this area, as well as many  of the recreational areas contained within the pub- lic lands of New Mexico, is dependent, to a great  degree, upon a unique volunteer group; the New  Mexico Volunteers for the Outdoors (NMVFO).  NMVFO is an all volunteer, action orient- ed organization which, since 1982, has been  coordinating groups of volunteers to work on  trails and other outdoor improvement projects on  New Mexico public lands.  On June 3, 1995, NMVFO co-sponsored  and coordinated the 1995 National Trails Day in  Albuquerque with a project in the Sandia  Mountain foothills and wilderness. I joined in with  about I 00 other volunteers who spent the day  repairing and improving uails and park facilities.  It was a way of giving back something to the  environment from which we derive so much  enjoyment As a consequence, I was "hooked"  and became a member of NMVFO.  Projects undertaken by NMVFO {which is  predominantly centered in Albuquerque) range  from local projects at such sites as the New  Mexico Narural History Museum's Environmental  Education Center in Cedar Crest and the ruins at  Coronado State Monument, .to state-wide projects  at such sites as Chaco Canyon National Park and  Bosque de! Apache National Wildlife Refuge. Most  projects usually take place over a weekend.  Projects may vary from one day to bne week in .  duration. They generally involve trail work but  there are other type:S of projects as well. peryone  works at their own level and are encouraged to  have a good time while helping out  There are approximately 25 projects  currently under consideration by NMVFO for  1996, beginning in March and continuing through  October. Among them are the Bosque del Apache  National Wildlife Refuge, Three Rivers  Petroglyph Site, Rio Grande Wild and Scenic  Rivers Recreation Area. Suga rite State Park,  Heron Lake State Park, City of Rocks State Park,  Chaco Canyon National Park, Caballo Lake State  Park and the Very Large Array (VLA) Radio  Telescope Facility.  If you enjoy the outdoors anii'protecting  the environment, NMVFO offers you a unique  opportunity. You will be joining a onderful group  of people and will be able to experience as an  "insider," areas of New e co not generally  accessible to the public. If ou would like more  Information about NMVFO call 884. 1991.  On August 19, 1995, the State Game  Commission signed a memorandum of under- standing with the National Foundation for North  American Wild Sheep (NMRP!). This very signifi- cant event entails the reintroduction of Desert  Bighorn to the Fra CristoOa!s as of October of 1995  with hunting perrniued for the first time in 16  years. This is a giant step forward in the eventual  goal of having 500 plus free ranging Desert  Bighorn and having them removed from the state  endangered species list. As this develops, volun- teers will be SQught to assist New Mexico Game  and Fis!\ in the transplant. The $123,000 bid for  the permit at the FNAWS convention set a record  and will surely leave a legacy for our sheep.  Ray Churan continues to orchestrate  the Sandia Mountains transplant effort. 'Ibe  target date for this·event will be the summer  of 1996. The U.S. Forest Service, Sandia Pueblo,  N. .Game & Fish and New Mexico FNAWS are all  working to make this happen.  The U.S. Forest Service has finished the  water catchment and fencing at Kiwanis Meadow,  partially funded by FNAWS. It looks great Thanks  to the whole USFS for their aggressive role in  making the mountain ready. Think sheep!  S ome people say I  work too hard ...  but if you choose me as your real  estatebroker,you'll be glad  / do!  ... how about some persuasive statistics:  MAX SANCHEZ, MBA CRS  Sandia Heights Resident  Direct Office: 880-:Z211  Residence: 856-2211  • 18 years of real estate experience  • Residing and specializing in Sandia Heights for  over 7 years  Main Office: 883-6161  E-Mail: mxsreste@swcp.com  i _H_.P_~GG  REALTY , INC  • No other Realtor/Resident of Sandia Heights  sells more real estate in Albuquerque  • Over 127 homes sold and closed in 1995!  If you haven't met me yet, these statistics might convince you ...  call me I I am incredibly prompt, thorough and get stunning results I  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  WINTER -1996  Should Sandia Hts. Phone Home?  Here's an example of what other  Neighborhood Associations can access  by e-mail over the Net.  By Charlotte Zero(- SHHA Board Member  At the Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association last month, it was proposed that we  explore the feasibility of creating a Sandia Heights  presence on the Internet. In looking into the sug- gestion, we discovered I 00 web pages devoted co  neighborhood issues. For example, Irvington  Community Association of Portland, Oregon, has  a web page that links co other neighborhoods as  well as pages supplied by local residents and busi- nesses. Information about neighborhood issues  and links co city, state and national web pages is  possible by computer.  This time next year, the capability of com- municating with local and state officials via email  will have greatly expanded. Having information  organized through a neighborhood homepage  which provides links to timely sires might prove  very useful.  Irvington Community Assn.  Portland, Oregon  Community Resources  •Government & Representatives  • Libraries & Bookstores  We have many such local sires available  What do you think? We'd like co hear  from you. And you can email your opinion co me  at lwvabc@nmia.com, call Erin at the SHHA  office or any Board member. Do let us hear from  you. Would yoi.t find it useful? Would you like to  work on the project? Graphics are always a wel- come addition!  • Museums & Art Institute  • Community Recycling  • Cable Access  • User Supported Community  Radio  •Colleges  • Public Schools  in Sandia Heights:  • The Rio Grande Library System  which now has the capability of  catalogue search.  • The City of Albuquerque is coming  on line.  · • APS, UNM. lVI and other state  schools are up and running.  • The New Mexico Legislature is  under construction, but valiantly  working to get proposed bills online  as well as committee meetings and  floor schedules.  • The governor has a homepage and  an email address.  come'on.let'sGetwith>>the program!  WfNOSIAR CRUISts  I 88lllll UlllCI lll! tOillll  <f)w<adi.u on_ Uuth ... tµJU. ha.tu. l/uutd iL  bnuallt. uuua-t.O/r.ill La1.U, g./idUuJ. ~  in uu:1i.lt1n.tJ. ~  a.unu. Lil.Jun. uru...  ~  i.n.du.l.tµ in tJu /hw.1 ~  tJu.. mod UULliDL filillnL, ~  ~  tJu  op.ot.-ail. AJU'm p.lal./Mm,. .• till t.O/iilc1UJ.  in an.d oul o/ ue/udu/ /uu,µ.  I  <dlu.. abnMp}u.u, u Hia;ud, tJu. 'al1iu M.l.t.Ul1.  anttJn.f,J tlu-/48 tµtub. O#t. Mdul..  (/)uU. w1un and tDi./.Jt. w1umr. fJ.l1U..  (/)iuMJ.u. all o/ tlu ~  oJ lnu  f  ,  • School Newspapers  • local Newspapers  • Community Centers  •Telecommunications  Other Neighborhoods  • Homeowners Associations  • Civic Organizations  Internal Networking  • Board & Committee  Members  • Bulletin Board of  Non-Commercial  Residents Messages  • Residenfs Home Pages  Pondering Problem Pets  By Che/le Schumann  - VCA Veternary Care Animal Hospital  Pets are an important pan of our soci- ety and family life. There are approximately  S2.S million dogs in 3S million households and  SS million cats in 28 million households in the  United Stares. Ideally all pets would behave as  their owners would like, but many of our  expectations are unrealistic. In many cases the "problem" pet is created by  the owner's misunderstanding of normal behaviors. Unfortunately, 7 million  animals are put to death in animal shelters for these "problems". Veterinary  guidance in pet selection. training and behavior patterns can help prevem  many needless deaths.  Prevention of behavior problems begins with pet selection. Making  an informed decision concerning the acquisition of a pet makes it less likely  that a problem will arise. The needs and behavior characteristics of a poten- tial pet need co be thoroughly understood. Any behavior exhibited by a pet is  the result of inherited response. learned behavior, current internal motivation  (i.e feeding, territory or mating) and external stimuli. The only way co con- trol the variable of inherited behavior pattern is through initial pet selection.  The other variables can be modified through behavior modification and other  techniques. The owner's life-style, personality and expectations need to be  matched with the needs and temperament of the pet  If you are currently experiencing a behavior problem with your  pet there are several areas of professional help. There are several trainers and  vererinarians in our area that take a special interest in behavior problems and  their solutions. Many problems are easily corrected by teaching the owner  about animal behavior and how co adjust their actions co that behavior.  Before considering a less desirable option for you and your pet, consider  some pet behavior counseling ... it may save a life.  HAWKWATCH INTERNATIONAL will begin a spmg <X1t.w1t for birds of  prey or raptors ii """1rd\. Volmteer.; and visitors are welcome to partici- pate. The <Xllrll site is located ii the south Snit Momtain ~  Cal HawkWatch at 505-255-7622 for fu1her information.  iii  THE GRIT  Like Mouthwatering for Chocolate  -Food of the gods- . For those of us who think chocolate is a sep- arate food group, February holds special appeal.  With any luck. on Valentine's Day we can look  forward to a box of chocolate candy. We prefer  not to think of ourselves as chocoholics, but as  chocolate connoisseurs.  Do you know that chocolate contains phenyl- ethylamine (PEA), a substance that also occurs  naturally in the brain and reaches higher levels in  people who are in love. Researchers once speai- lated that eating chocolate could trigger passion;  unfortunately they were proved wrong by studies  showing that chocolate does not increase PEA  levels in the brain. That means that Montezuma  was a victim of false optimism when he downed a  beaker of chocolate before visiting his harem.  Even when eaten in large amounts, chocolate is  not an aphrodisiac.  The good news is that cocoa contains tannins  that tend to block plaque formation on teeth.  However, the good is more than offset by the  sugar in chocolate.  The bad news is that chocolate is more than  50 percent fat. Opening a 1 lb. box of chocolate- covered creams guarantees you almost 2000  calories and 75 grams of fat (80 calories and 3  grams of fat per piece.) How many of us have  demolished an entire box at one sitting.  According to the USDA Food Pyramid,  chocolate is listed among foods to be consumed  sparingly. It recommends keeping portions small  and limiting their serving to two or three times  weekly.  Chocolate comes from the bean of the tropical  cacao plant Cacao beans are fermented, dried,  By Patricia Aaron - Home Economist,  NMU Cooperative Extension Service  roasted and hulled. The meat of the beans is  ground into a liquid paste, Cocoa butter is  squeezed from this liquid paste leaving solids  which are formed into a cocoa cake.  The form of chocolate most familiar to us is  unsweetened Cocoa powder. The best is Dutch  process; the cocoa has been treated with an alkali  to reduce binemess. Cocoa can replace unsweet- ened chocolate; 3 Tbs. cocoa and I Tbs. buner  equals I square of unsweetened chocolate.  Unsweetened chocolate is 100% chocolate  liquor, the pure essence of the cocoa bean, hard- ened into cakes. Sweet, semisweet or binersweet  chocolate is made with chocolate liquor, sugar,  lecithin to emulsify and vanillin. Liquid chocolate  in foil envelopes is a combination of cocoa pow- der and vegetables oils.  Milk chocolate is chocolate liquor combined  with extra cocoa butter, milk or cream, sugar and  flavorings. White chocolate contains milk powder  and sugar like milk chocolate. It does not contain  chocolate solids and is not officially considered  ·chocolate" in America. Here it is labeled as  a·coating." ·ReaI· white chocolate should have  cocoa buner, not palm oil or vegetables shorten- ing listed as an ingredient  Heat and moisture rapidly destroy the gloss  on the surface of a cake of chocolate. A monled  or gray surface known as "bloom" develops. The  chocolate is safe to eat  To melt shaved or chopped chocolate, use a  low to moderate temperature. Heating chocolate  over hot water lessens the danger of overheating.  Chocolate is easily melted in a microwave oven.  Hot cocoa is a blend of cocoa and milk which  produces a very appealing beverage. To prepare a  memorable cup of hot chocolate, heat I ounce  unsweetened shaved chocolate and 2 Tbs. water  over hot water until chocolate melts. Stir in 1/4  cup sugar, 2 cups milk and 1/4 tsp. vanilla.  Whisk until frothy.  Dark chocolates will keep up to one year at 70  degrees F or in the refrigerator. Milk chocolates  will keep up to six months and filled chocolate  candy up to three months. All chocolates will  keep for 12 months in the freezer.  Enjoy every bite of your Valentine's Day  candy. Give me a call at 243-1386 if you need  further information. Chocolate is a favorite topic.  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  The lowdown  from High Desert  Front and Center  Scott Patrick Homes plans to have town- home and residential models open soon at the  new Desert Sky community in High Desert.  Twenty-six pueblo style townhomes are being  built and will range from 1500 to 2200 sq. ft. with  prices from $175,000 to $230,000. Sixty residential  houses are also being constructed featuring soft.  muted colors. Homes will be placed on lots so resi- dent's views are maximized.  Midway to the Mountains  Trammel Crow continues construction on  The Pinnacle, its 430-unit luxury aparrment com- plex. Amenities include a computer room, periodi- cal room, theater, two pools, jacuzzi, fitness room  and a 5000 sq, ft. clubhouse. Apartments are one  to three bedrooms, each with one or two car  garages. Rents range from $675 to $1300.  Bordering Cibola National Forest  1tillium is a three-peraled, multi-<Xllored wild- 6™u h's also Stone & Asoociates' resideruial 12 7-Ia  ~  cmununity. Ave llocx !Ere wiil be offmd, ra!fl  in size from 1851 to 2819 sq. ft. and prices from  $215,000 to $300,000. There will be a neighbor- hood park and easy access to High Desert's exten- sive trail system for biking, running and walking.  Ali Baudoin created the two controversial,  22-foot-high, brushed stainless steel sculptures  that now stand at the Academy and Spain  entrances to High Desert. He was awarded  $100,000 in private commission for "Shrine to  the Bear" and ·Dance with the Planter's Moon."  Baudoin sees Shrine to the Bear (north end) as a  children's monument because each year a poetry  contest will be held for local students. The win- ning poem will be anached by plaque to one of  the many boulders  surrounding  the  sculpture. Planter's  Moon (south end) has  a bent, plant-like stem  that seems to with- stand the wind and  weather.  Baudoin  feels that the steel  reflects the changing  colors of the moun- tains and the clouds  and the eatth tones of  the grass and soil.  Reprinted.from  High Desert  Newsletter  - November 1995  Snnmn HEIGHTS. VOICE m  THE nEw mEHICO SEnRT.E  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIO N  ~~ ii j~; ~ - . Speaker • Seminar Leader  ~,  • Facilitator • Trainer  - ·  ·  Joe Sanlangelo  OWMEA  ( ~ I  Gale Stewart  W.;  Prf/Sldet( Rod Staw&'f & Associales  ..._ 1133 Marigo&d Ck N.E. • Abuquerque. N.M. 87122  Fu (SOS)~ • Res. (S05) 856-1430 • au.. (SOS) 3'5-8591  MHUng Planning  and  Spoclal Event Coordinators  Janis K. Crawford • Dawn Nakamura-Kessler  (505) 856-1256  (505) 265-8006  7200 Montgomery NE 1225  Albq, NM 87109  Pct Grooming  Holly Lapetina  LaPet Groomer  Loultd 1wu SGJ1 Ra/ad  & Trtu1iwa1 f or your  conHlliMCt  K·9 & Cat Appearance Engineer/  Cottffiod ~anion AnimOIHyglenlst  (505) 856-0497  Nancy S. Eckert  Piano lnstn1ctor  (505) 856-0963  \ 82~ Tr:imw :iyTcn:icc loop N.E. • Alb .. N.M. 87122  0 c~~~L'!c:!a~~  TO CONSIGN OR TO BUY!  • FURNITURE •  . ~tib~i'.*~~-~~ri:.~~~~~tt~ .  AT EUBANK & $PAIN · ~n I.bl-Sat· 1CWJH;pn  5200 Eubank NE (At the Promenade ) 294-3400  WILLIAM E. EBEL, ClU, ChFC  2155 louisianill Blvd. NE, Suite 8000  P.O. Box 3419  Albuquerque, NM 87110/87190·3419  Office: (505) 880-9600  @  .  '  Fax: (505} 880-0136  Grace Lutheran Church  'And my God 'hd supply al )'OU' nHd according lo  His richas In gloty by Christ Jasus. •  (Pl'vlipplans 4:1i)  S!.M'lday WorsNp: 9:30 AM  Sunday School: 11:00 AM  (Nursery avaJ\able)  7550 Eubank NE (Jut:I south of Pas.o d91 Norte)  823-9100  Rev.rend Randall L Goller, Pubr  257 Juan Tabo, N.E.  UeenH No. 10020  AlbuQ~qu., New Mexico 87123  VISA • <Ml .... ~ge  KUOlff  ~orhry r~ lt'iqHfv l:lh(ve:rque  IGlle appeal  ~fW  lllQredletlh  ~-to-folow fonMat  ·~ eaeh eoleetlotl: Ootntlet l Ootntlet D. or Faiidly  <iu1ca a tnaf ~  f@~  Ma.shrpleee~  ~«  PO folC Zt76'  Alltqterqwe, NM l7l5f  NO O/ETI - NO EXERCISE/  PATUITT.O fAT IUUOl llGftED&EXT - "lllYWU llllWW. Of fKE IOS"  l'UI$ • IUf.lSlBKKT LnO. • Ml MUSCl.1 Ta.sut: 6 MAIT l nlU llllmTI  100% M ONfY UCIC GUARAHTEE If  ./JAA HAAT  NOT IATl$F¥0 WITH YOUR RESUlTI  (SOS) 123.oa54  !OWMOIDMfl.JOM.YSZ9 lll  l-ll»-531·1091  Karen Kraft I Diane Ward Fine Arts Prints:  • Robert Bateman  • Charles Frace  • Steve Hanks  and others  Picture It Framed  (505) 298-6697  Fine Custom Framing and Art  ELDORADO SQUARE 19 • 11200 MONTGOMERY NE. ALBUOUEFQJE  Z Edward D. Jones & Co:  f;;y; ,. a <&rt+rr  Bonded • Insured  CframiM~ Sri-vive  "We fit y our needs"  1-.. nmWITB~or a m.  RESlllENlw. . cx:MMm:lAl.  Gina Romero  (505) 298-8547  ((111·11>1))  TAS Security Systems, Inc.  Martin M. Mayo  General Manager  2712 CarUste BNd. NE  Telephone 881-0001  AA>uque<que, N.M. 87110  license #27136  Comm.n;ial and R~  Bvrptar and Fre Nwrn Systems  CCTV· Aceus Controls • 24-Hocx MonltorinQ  WINTER - 1996  CLASSIFIED ADS  These non-commercial ads are printed  at no charge to members of the SHHA  and will run for one issue unless a  longer run is requested. Submissions  can be sent in writing to the editor or  call 856-1868.  BALDWlN UPRIGHT PIANO & BENCH kir sale. Call  ~Hill, 856-8363.  WANT TO RENT. Family r:J 4 (no yo...-.g dliktenl wishes  to rert large,~  RV to &ive to ~cs  in  July 1996. Will pay market rental prices and will maireain  RV to yru high strdards. Call Peggy al 856-3401.  PORSCHE, 1982, 911SC TARGA. Mint condition. New  tip, tires, paint Cg.ads red). s 17,000. Call ~923.  CARPOOi. TO SANTA FE. Meets dai1y at the Grde K.  Call Duane/ Pa1 856-7443.  TINNlS PARTNER SOUGHt Sifl;les, cbubles, anylime.  Play al 4.0 -45 level. Call Jim al 856-7568.  VOl.UNTHR FOR YOUR COMMUNllY. )rnior League  r:J ~  Warts You! Ge! Involved. Women 21  and 1.p. Call 881-0199 kir more info. No age req.iire- menl>.  KATHRYN SHAW, babysitter, pel sitter and other odd  pis. Call 857-9236.  BRIDGE Pl.AYERS. lr*""5led in ides' daytime er c:oo- ples' evening !:ridge? New ~  bming every weEk.  Call 5'l"a w..fortl 856-1376 er ;..ne Prince 856-3343.  ITTAMBOAT SPRINGS, COLORADO. J-BR log hcrre  overlooking ski area. SleEps 6-10, available kir nighdy  rencal. (2 nigl-.s min.) 5umller Rates: SlOO/ nigl-(. Winter  rates: S 175 / nigl-(. Call K;nli, 85fH.484.  HOME FOR SAU BY OWNER. New pair«, stucco, ror:J,  lightifl; and wi...-.ces. All light and brigtt. Oe.1l room  wilh fireplace, patio dining. gorgeous ooutyard views on  a 1/4 acre lot Large RV storage, double garage, 3BR,  2BA, 1900sq. ft - $185,000 firm. 821-1663.  STITOiERY & CRAFTS WOMEN'S GROUP. Meets on a  regular basis. Join us. For more information call Lucy  Russel a1 856-n16.  IMPORTANT!  The publishing date for  the new SHHA Directory  has been changed to the  summer of 1996.  Please check your 1995  Directory and make sure  that your name, address  and phone number are  correct. For any changes,  call Erin at the SHHA  office at 296-1412.  _/t.G Edwards &Sons.Inc  INYES1JtENn SINCE JUT  MAKE A NOTE: MAY '98 GRIT  KENNETH C. LERSTEN, ED.D, CFP  IM'UTW£HT •lfOKEA  Deadline for articles, advertising, classifieds, letters to the editor:  (~)119- J4S6  1-1()()..279-nss  FAXSOS..IH-)I07  UOI AMERICAS PARKWAY. /'IE  SUITE 121  ALBUQUERQUE. NM 17110  APRIL 15, 1996!  Call for a new 1996 ad rate sheel  and get noticed in The Grit!  ~ :>:'  !:;"  <:::)  "'  r>-ll~ "<:::  ~  l "l..:;i ~ - · gi  if.,,· ~ g  ~I!: ;:::s  "'  I!: !Xi  g'  ~ ~  ~ ~  s~  ::i:: 0 ~ :::t.  ~~~I~~  • • •• !'!  - · - gg~gg ~""'  ....., a>.....,  ~ ~  ~~~ ~ s.  ;:::!~~  !"::!:. ~  CJ  .,,. '  :;1 ;,~. t.~  S~<  ~ ttl • .  t:o 1 · 1  I¢ ·.  ~o~  CD VIZ  c -10  .gQ>  "' .,, ::i:  ;Ill - "'  .0 t"') - "'0  t: CD ::Z:  .!"' ~ ;;l  Z N::Z:  ~go  co ...,~  " .... "'  ~  0  f'  ~  g  ~  !::  ~  ~~  ~  2  ~ Ill ~  "' c -0 °'  ~ ~ ~:;  ,_.. m ~ ~  ZE~~  9 C rn '-<  w rn.,,""  ~z ;?!  s:: 0  ~  ~tj  ~ [  ~i  ~ (O  ~ ··  CTI  ··~  ~1=  .!. 0  §_ •  0 o.  r. I  ~ - £·  ~  ~ ~  q  ;;· g'  ~ ~  ~~ !'fW ~ H  ss. ... ~  o- §  ~ i ~ 8  ~.  ....  ~  !"'~  ~ nU  H  ~  J~ ~~  l !  [;a~ ~a@[  ~1  ! ~  - I  ~  *  Inside ...  President's Message ........... 1  Special Meeting ............... 1  Roundhouse Report .......... 2  Biographies ....................... 3  Roadrunners ...................... 4  ARC .................................... 5  Bobcats .............................. 6  Wine Tasting ...................... 7  Sandia Pueblo ................... 7  Smart Spot ···············::·····.··· 8  Piedra Lisa ....................... 10  Ranger's Report ................ 11  NMVFO ........................... 12  BigHoms .......................... 12  Home Page ...................... 13  Chocolate ........................ 14  ~  Vi'lne  See urm~" "  on pcir)( 7 l  ~  h-lr)',\ ti~i· -n;; HCl·IU•·-NI 1~1~ /l.SSOCl/\llON  W INTER - 1996  Open Letter  to All Sandia Heights Residents  Over the past two years we have come a long way at Circle K In becoming a  better neighbor In the Sandia Heights communlry. Some or our accomplishments Include  the recycling program that takes place on the first Saturday or every month to help us  better our environment. In addition, this wltl be our third year sponsoring the annual  Spring Fling Picnic. It has been our pleasure the past two years to not only supply all  the food for this event, but also the chefs to cook so that members of the community  may truly enjoy themselves. Some might see this as a chore. but we view It as an  opportunity to thank those people most Important to us, our customers.  There are other great things soon to anive at your local Circle K. Effective In  January, we Installed a cardboard recycling bin In the rear or our store. This Is for all  residents to help us reduce the cardboard In our landfills. Coming this spring we will be  installlng credit card readers at our gas pumps for your convenience. These wUI give  two benefits to you our customers. First, you will be able to purchase gasoline 24 hours  a day without the store having to be open. Second, you will be able to purchase gaso- line without having to leave your vehicle. A definite advantage if you have small  children traveling with you.  ~rry Sanchez. your store manager has also become very Involved with  maklng the store a better place to shop. Terty believes that being pan of the community  Is what makes a successful store. Whether lrs dressing In costumes and giving out  candy for Halloween or Inviting your children to visit Santa Claus at Christmas, Terty  finds It very fulfilling to give back to the communiry.  With aU this going on at Circle K we have a ravor to ask the communiry.  In our efforts to remain a profitable and competitive business, we would like to place a  liquor license at our location. Knowing that there arc concerns. we have agreed to put  In writing certain condilions if you will support us in our endeavor. These conditions  would Include:  • We would not change our hours of operation  • We would not seU any single beer.;  • We would not sell any quan beers  • We would not sell any alcohol miniatures  • We would not sell any fortified wines (I.e. M.D. 40140, Thunderbird)  In addition we would like to offer a nnc wine selection for your convenience.  we at Circle K hope you will consider this request as not only a convenience  for the communiry but as a continued partnership between Clrcle Kand the Sandia  Heights Homeowners. If you have thoughts or concerns on this Issue. please contact  either the Circle K office, Circle K store or the Homeowners Association no later than  February 29, 1996.  We look forward to your continued support at Circle K.  ®.  THE CIRCLE K CORPORATION  9504 Tramway Blvd. N.E. · Albuquerque, NM 87122  Phone (800) 861-8814' · Fax (SOS) 858-74'03  