The Albuquerque Public SChools  Boundary Committee has submitted its  recommendations for changes to existing  school boundaries to Peter Horoschak, the  APS Superintendent He will now review the  Committee's work and either forward their  recommendation to the School Board, revise  it or submit his own recommendation. The  next event in this lengthy process will be a  Public Hearing on October 30th. As at  previous meetings, SHHA will present resri- mony on behalf of the residents of Sandia Heights.  Since all recommendations thus far have kept Sandia  Heights within the boundaries for La Cueva High  ToUIQ.- ,,_ - Sandia  Heights  North  High  Desert  School and had Middle SchOOt sru- den ts attending either the new  Mid School or the current  Eisenhower School, our role has  been to support the recorrunenda- tions and to convey the fact that  our area is vitally interested in the  outcome of the process. Although  the public hearing will have  ocaured by the time you read this,  several Board Members and hope- fully others will have attended to monitor and  respond to the proceedings.  11le next important date is November 6th  Sandia Heights Units Map  Key  -- Unit Division Lines  UJ  Unit Numbers  ~11> Main Roads  Neighborhood Streets  Trails  Tnillonr;c-~  Map.., lnlor.ariooi llMcnced, 1994" 1996  Tram Tennnel  Sandia  Heights  South  ELECTION  ISSUES  INSIDE  when the issue comes before the APS Board. My  undel'Slallding is that the issue will be considered and  a decision made at that meeting. Although the  process has been favorable to Sandia Heights so far,  it's imponant no< to become complacent Now that  the Boundary Coounittee has done its part. the rec- ommendations could be changed by either the Super  intendent or the School Board. Please be alert to  newspaper articles that differ with proposals  described above. And join us at the School Board  meeting November 6th. It's very important that all  decision makers realize Sandia Heights residents are  vitally concerned about the education of our children.  Continued on page 3 ...  Learn Your Unit  Number AND  Your Covenants  by Don Aunapu - SHHA Covenants, Chair  A lot of SHHA attention is being directed to  compliance with the covenants. Sandia Heights is divided  into 30+ "different" units and the Association only has 6,  non-paid conunittee members to cover them all. You can  be assured that each of these volunteers tal<es their pa5i- tion very seriously ond ia making a =ened elfon to  wsure that everyone in the community is in compliance  with their particular unit's covenants.  As a result of covenant complaints from resi- dents as well as potential violations noted by committee  members, there are 89 active cases as of the last report  Each violarion is reviewed by a cornrninee member and a  friendly letter sent ro the residents. Jn many cases, there  is a simple lack of awareness of the covenants and once  notified residents correct the violation. Jn some cases,  however, there is a dispute and the process may lead ulti- mately to legal action, after careful consideration.  Because the violations are numerous, please be aware  that the process takes time. So don't expea the siruation  to be corrected as quickly as you, apd we, might like.  1b give yoo a Sense of the committee wo!ldoad  and ro Jet you know you're not alone if you've received a  letter, here are some Slatistics by categ0ry of complaint  • Unscreened air-<:anditioners,  satellite dishes  53  • Weeds, debris, trash  8  • Campers, boats, trailers, RVs 12  •Trees, lan~ping  7  •Signs  7  • Unapproved construction  2  These numbers do not include complaints which have  been amicably or otherwise resolved, and these com- plaints are in various stages of notification and resolu- tion. As you observe violations, please feel free to report  them to the SHHA office at 296-1412.  You should also be aware that covenants for  every unit in Sandia Heights are not identical. Your  neWbor just across the sireet may be in a different unit  and' therefore their covenants may nor be the same as  yours. For example, you may be restricted in your  1.Wparking of a Recreational Vehicle while your neigh- bor's covenants may not even mention an RV. It only  tal<es conrurrence of 75% of the residents in your unit ro  change your covenants. And in some cases this may be  the answer. Working toward a unified set of covenants  for all of Sandia Heights can become a future goal of  SHHA. Please let us know what you think of this idea  If there is enough interest we may attempc this monu- mental task.  Remember that maintaining the beauty of our  area and increasing property values through covenant  enforcement is everyone's job as a resident - and part of  being a good neighboc  O>edc out your Unit Number on the Map and then  ..  Ill mal<e sure you !>ave the covenants for that Unit.  Call the SHHA officr for replacement sets.  THE GRIT  THE GRIT  is published quarterly  as the official newsletter  of the  SANDIA HEIGHTS  HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  P.O.Box 20021  Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021  Phone: 505-296-1412  Fax: 505-296-2620  E-mail: SHHA@nmia.com  Homepage: http://www.nmia.com/shha .  BOARD ~f DIRECTORS  Anne Yegge  President  Bob Kemble  Vice President  Ruth Friesen  Secretary  Rob Loughridge  Treasurer  Don Aunapu  Marshall Aungier  Linda Caldwell  Jon Cashwell  DukeColket  Jerry Grayson  Michael Gross  Chris Harmon  Don Hooper  Lester libo  Irene Middleton  Michael Pfeifer  Lorrie Rice  Margo Roberts  Robert Shilling  Robert Thomas  Tom Wray  Charlotte Zero(  EDITOR  Carolyn Hinde!  Call: 505-856-1868 Fax 505-856-1792  Write: The Grit, c/o Hinde! Inc.  11 24 Marigold NE, ABQ, NM 871 22  PRINTED BY  lntermountain Color  on recycled paper  ~ Coffee  ~Corner  Wednesdays lOam - Noon  November 6th  Jo Cheney  1461 Bluebell NE  821-4493  December 11th  Carol Treat  301 Spring Creek Place N E  856-6388  Januar!.J 22nd  Carol Fleury  15 Juniper H ill Loop N E  856-0732  0 pen lo oll pesidenls of Sandia  Heights. Men and women welcome!  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  R©UNDHOUSE REP©RT  Brief Summaries of the Proposed Constitutional Amendments  Appearing on the November 5th Ballot  The.following is a condensed version Qf the legislative ccundl service publication  entitled ·eonsdtutional Amendments Proposed by the Legislature in 1996  and Arguments For and Against. •  Proposed Amendment 1 would change the state's fonnula for spending the $7 billion in New Mexico's  !WO permanent funds and the money earned from investing chose funds. It would also change the way  in which money in one of the funds could be invested. Supporters argue the changes are necessary to  prO!eCt the long-term value of the funds against inflation. Opponents argue the propa>ed changes are  financially risky.  Proposed Amendment 2 would allow school disaicts to, in effea, borrow money by entering into  "lease-purchase" agreements for education technology equipment without voter approval. Supporters  aigue chat change is necessary because paying cash for computers and ocher technology is often irnpoo- sible. Opponents aigue chat voters should always be able to approve or disapprove questions of whether  to borrow money.  Proposed Amendment 3 would establish a procedwe by which eleaed roumy officials could be recalled  from office. suppooers argue chat voters must have some method of removing eleaed ollicials from mis- feasance or malfeasance. Opponents argue chat eleaed officials can be removed at the next election, and  even if they need to be removed earlier, the process set out in this proposal is too cumbersome.  Proposed Amendment 4 would create a new way to amend the New Mexico Constirution - by allowing  an independent c:ommisfilon to propose amendments chat could include broad changes to the ronstirution.  Cwrently, only !he legislature can propooe amendments, and those propasals must be narrow. SlJWorters  argue chat many parts of the state ronstirution need to be changed and an easier method of making chose  changes must be developed. Opponents argue chat the prohibition against "logrolling.· or forcing voters to  approve or reject ~  constitutional amendments at once, should never be changed.  Proposed Amendment 5 would raise the per diem and mileage allowances for legislators from $7 5 per  day and $25 per mile, respectively, to standard lntanal Revenue Service rates for the city of Santa Fe,  which is currently $124 per day and $28 per mile. Supporters argue the change is necessmy to fairly  compensate New Mexico's unpaid legislators for their lodging and travel expenses. Opponents argue chat  voters should retain direct ronaol ova-~  ~diem and mileage alJowanc:es:  Proposed Amendment 6 w0wct combine the appointal Public Un1ity cOmmission and the eleaed Slate  Corporation Commission into a single, eleaed Public Regulation Commission. Supponers argue that the two  cornmis.5ions share duties so similar they should be combined. Opponents argue chat the State Corporation  Commis.5ion does far more than just regulate some un1ities; it reguiares the iINJrallCe; trucking and pipeline  industries and should remain seimate from the Public Un1ity Commission.  Proposed Amendment 7 would allow county governments to borrow money, subjea to a vote of the  people, to purchase open space and buy the equipment necessary to build roads and bridges. SUpporters  argue the amendment would give counties the flexibility needed to pwsue sound policies while preserving  the voter's right to approve borrowing. Opponents aigue chat goverrunent shouldn't borrow money to buy  land or C0!1.50UC!ion equipment  Kip Nicely  State Rep/D istrict 31  296-9277  Tom Wray  State Senator/D istrict 21  856-1450  Frank Bird  State Rep/District 23  823-S770  Contractor Evaluation Pr~ram  Needs Your Referrals  by Erin Frinlcman - SHHA Administrative Assistant  One of the benefits of SHHA membership is the use of  the Contractor Evaluation Program. When a member needs  some type of work done on their house, they may call the  SHHA office for information on evaluations chat have been  submitted by Sandia Heights residents on rontractors in chat  area of expertise. However. we need to build up the number of  completed forms in our tiles. If you have recently used a con- tractor and would like to inform your neighbors of the type of  5elVice you received, please fill in the form enclosed in chis  issue of The Grit and return it to the SHHA oflic:e at the address  given on the form.  We especiaily need forms on handymen, house dean- ing people, general yardworl<ers, elearicians, tile inSlallers and  pl~. We welcome evaluations in all other fields as well.  If you need references on contractors, more info or  additional blank forms, call SHHA at 296-1412. The more  infoonation we have, the better we can assist our rnernbeis in  OOtaining quality rontractors.  FILL OUT THE FORM YOU !'i"4D IN THIS ISSUE  OF THE GRIT AND RETURN TO SHHA OFFICE!  ---~- -;- :- :  ~  f.-.o.·#·--·- -·- -- =  )  )  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  FALL-1996  President's Message  ... continued.from page I  Thanks once again to our hardworking and effective  Boundary Committee representative Donna Mazzei, who  has played a key role in the favorable reconunendatioos for  our community.  Resident Volunteers Honored  at NEIGHBORFEST Banquet  Speal<jng of hardworking individuals, Bill Stabler,  a longtime SHHA Board Member and fonner President has  resigned. Bill served most recently as Chairman of the  Architeaural Review Committee. He spent countless hours  ensuring compliance with our covenants and will be sorely  missed. Fortunarely, Don Hooper, anodler longtime Board  Member has agreed to become the new Chair of the ARC.  He will be assisted by Toni Seidel, a former Chairpetson  who will rejoin the Board and provide her technical and  histDlical perspective to the Committee.  Long overdue recognition has come to former  Board Member, Vice Presiden~ Communications Chair and  park activist - Janey Brink. Without her most recent  efforts, the San Bernardino Park would not exist Her name  was submitted to the Nelghborfest Committee as a "Friend  of the Neighborhood.· and she was honored at the county- wide banquet of neighborhood organizations. The GRIT had  also been submitted for recognition in the Neighborhood  Newsleaer categocy.  Anne Yegge  The jungle gym  equipment from  the old Sandia  Hei~ts Park has  fina!ly arrived at  its new home - SHHA Park on  San Bernardino  and Tramway.  little Grant  Ritterbush of  Tramway Lane  happily gives it  a test n.Jt\.  By Carolyn Hinde/ - GRIT Editor  NE!GHBORFEST's Sixth  Annual Neighborhood Recognition  Banquet was held at the Marriott  Hotel on October 19th. Presented  by the League of Neighborhoods,  the event recognizes outstanding  volurueers. neighborhood projects  and communication efforts that  not only benefit their communities  but are an inspiration to all who  work to improve the quality of life  in their areas.  Honored as Outstanding  Individual was Janey Brink of  Quail Run Drive, who has served  on the SHHA Board from 1990- 1996 as Secretary, ARC committee  member, Vice President and  Communications Chair. She most  recently has volunreered to work  Anita Miller lor State Senate  IJIJekwe~llmta~ IJMku~ ID.~  $~A1~  "'4 ~· .fet~ ku.e l)W/,  ~mik~!  - Lynne Behnlield, Former President, Sandia Heights Homeowners Assoc.  A GOOD BUSINESS WOMAN  Endorsed by the Greater Albuquerque  Chamber of Commerce  A TOUGH ATTORNEY  Endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police  A GOOD EDUCATOR  Endorsed by New Mexico Educators  llmtaA1Jle;,,~~. ~.ad~  ~btkwe/1,~of.tltu~w.JJ,  mak~a~~She~Mt~m  ~~.  lmtm~pmp/e~b  fbtd CXUfUf«Jl1. ~  ~- (L to r.) Janey Brinlc is honored as an Outstanding Individual at  Neighborfest '96; Ca~  Hinde!, editor, holds a Certificate of  Recognition for The Gnt Newsletter; and Ruth Friesen, SHHA  Secretary, ~  Bob Kemble's award for excellence as an  Association representative to the City/County.  with County Parks and Recreation to make sure Sandia  Heighrs has park tacilities for ils residents and their children.  She was present at the dinner along with her husband,  Chuck; SHHA SecrelaJy Ru!h Friesen and hu.5band Dee; and  Catolyn Hinde!, Grit editor and hu.5band Fred. Sandia Heighrs  received a NeighbocFest Award Certificate for The Grit  Also honored, but noc in attendance, were incum- bent Senator 1bm Wray as a Friend of Neighborhoods, for  being insaumental in olxaining funds for the new Sherill's  Station; and Bob Kemble, who was placed on the City  CounciVCoumy Commission Honor Roll for his impressive  efforrs as association representative of Sandia Heights over  the last yeaL  1----·, ___...,--_ STATE SENATE DISTRICT 21  - Martin Cham, Mayor of Albuquerque  lln J, '  '  J' f:.ffedwe, .fe.ak. jtvi. A'ew A'~ ·  From the community ... For the community.  THE GRIT  AWARD WlNNING  CUSTOM HOME BUILDER  NOW CONsidrniNq sdECT  ADDITIONS  AND REMODELS  iN YOUR NEiqHOORHOOd.  Also  BUILD TO SUIT  ON youR lm.  CAil foR A fREE coNsulTATioN  JOHN KALTENBACH HOMES  Everything you should expect  in a custom home builder.  P.O. Box 2lll4, AlbuQUERQUE, NM 871 ~  505-294-3533  lmp://www.jl<ltoMES.COM  November and December are a  great time for spiritual growth!  Come Join Us Sunday Morning!  Sandia  Presbyterian Church  Worship Services:  8:10am, 10:30am  Sunday School:  '  All ages; 9:00am  Rev. Dewey Johnson, Pastor  Nursery (newborn-3) available  from B:OOam-noon  Discovery Time (ages 4-10)  available at both worship services  Professional counseling service  and Stephen Ministry available  to the community  Continuing Education classes  offered in Spanish, computers,  signing, and other topics;  call for more information  Very active youth program and  extensive adult activities  10704 Paseo Del Norte NE, Alb., NM 87122  Oust east of Eubank),  856-5040  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  County Of Bernalillo  dl.ulu.nur. ~  There wU/ be a selies ifBemaiillo Counry Bond Jssues on the November 5, 1996 General Election .  baDol Government Issued Bonds are one method if.financing mqjor Co101ry pl'QJ'ects.  1he seven local Bond Issues on the fur right side of the ballot represent oomrnunity infrasttuaure  projects that are part of Bemalillo County's long-range planning and the result of 18 months of  public hearings. These projects were identified as the most crttkally needed in our oomnrunity.  BOND ISSUE 11: $8,870,000  New road consttuction and repair, bike paths and trails.  Each area in the County is slated to receive important improvements.  BENEFITS TO COUNTY COMMISSION DISIRICT 4: Disttict 4 road projects include $1.2 million for  widening and other improvements to Paseo del Norte from wyoming to namway and $1 million for  Eubank Corridor improvements.  BOND ISSUE 12: $'2,130.000  Storm sewers and wastewater systems would be expanded into most areas.  These funds will also provile sewers and initial development o( water supply systemS in rural areas.  BENEFITS TO COUNTY COMMl5SION DISIRICT 4: Projects include storm sewers for Sandia Heights  and North Albuquerque Acres.  .  BOND ISSUE t3: $'2,000,000  AD libraiy branches will receive updated books and ocher reference materials.  1ntemet access will be available to all &ranches as a quality educational resource.  BENEFTI'S TO CXlUNIY COMMBSION DISl1UCT 4: l1lese funds will be used to stock books and  mataial<; tOr our new libraiy branch at Barstow & Harper NE.  BOND ISSUE 14: $2,000,000  Public Health Fadlllies are a mandated service of county government and provide vital  immunization and health services. This funding will replace the Slanfool Public Health Office which  is in dire need o( upgrading.  BENEFITS TO OOUNTY COMMISSlON DISl1UCT 4: Public health clinics affect EVERYONE - remember Hanla virus!  .  BOND ISSUE 15: $3,450,000  Parks and Reaeadon Flldlides including the re-<levelopment of playgJ:oonds throughout  Bemalillo Cowity. A very large-scale project in the wo!IG is the new regional Mesa del Sol  Recreation Complex.  .  BENEFITS TO COUNTY COMMl5SION DISTIUCT 4: Approximately $.5 million is targeted for  playground and park development in Dis1Iia 4:  - BOND ISSUE #6: $1,000,000  Expansion of the Juvenile Detention Center will meet demands for housing the growing  .numbeis.of..youthful.olfenden:'---~·~~~~~~~-·~~~~~  BENEFITS TO COUNTY COMMISSION DISl1UCT 4: Buying available land at the exNing facility  now will avoid the need for expensive satellite facilities. Expansion is needed to keep pace  with overcrowding.  BOND ISSUE 17: $'2,550,000  Sheriff's Command CentelS located throughout die County will provide prot.eaion and  security for all residents. FUnding will also continue efforts to place a much needed communications  and response system.  BENEFITS TO COUNIY COMMISSION DISl1UCT 4: Bond funds will be used to complete a  S1a1e-0f-the-art conununications and dispatch center located at Eubank and Holly NE.  Since Bemalillo County is retiring existing bond deb!, we can approve all seven Bond Issues without  increasing our propeny tllX rare. While it is true we ooukt see a tllX decrease if we did not approve  these Bond Issues, it would be a very slight annual tax savings. We will not have another opporru- nity to approve critical capital improvement projects witil November of 1998. We truly need to move  forward with these important improvements to our community infrastruaure. ======i  Thank you for your oontinued suppon. I feel so privileged to serve as your  County Commissioner and look fOIWlllll to our next four years together.  (/Jmthmta (}-. &wmrd  Bernalillo County Commissioner.  District 4  WATER CONSERVATIVE IANDSCAPE  AND APPROPRIATE USE OF  PI.ANT MATERIAL  • Residential or Commerdal  • Native and Traditional Landscape  •Designs  • Sprinkler & Drip Irrigation  Design and Installation  • Degreed Horticulturist On Staff  "Licensed And Insured Since 1974"  520 MONTANO RD NW  GB98, MS-6 UC #027657  344-4448  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  FALL -1996  Wildlife Rescue: A Group You Shoo Id Know  BABY BIRDS  By Q rolyn Hinck/ - Grit Editor  Most baby birds do NOT need  If you find.,, ~bird  Ot' rinal,  to be rescued. Lack oi infoona- put it in a carrfxwd box (not a cage),  tion causes people to ' kidnap"  rover it and put it in a -m quiet,  uninjured babies, which greatly  diVlc place. Then cal Wildlife Reswe  reduces their chance for survival.  ix fut1her inslructions on how to  NESTUNGS: Put back in the nest!  readJ one of our rehabilitat0<s.  It needs to be fed frequendy and  344-2500. ~~  the mother will not rejea it  because oi human handling  FLEDGLINGS: Put the bird back  for an American  where it was found. It's much bet- 's food and care  ter off in its natural habitat Keep  Hawks can  Try lo keep Olher animals away.  In the last issue of The Grit, I detailed some  crows and owls get tender lovin~  of the dubious escapades of "Dufuss, • our wild and  care - and = per day to fee(!  crazy cat guy. It was he who lead me to the summer  and medicate these creatures  digs of Wildlife Rescue of New Mexico. Stuffed into  would surprise you.  the vacant spaces ofthe Narural Resources Center at  A newborn nestling will  the State F~. this non-profit organization of  stay with Wildlife Rescue for  volunteer animal caregivers is a find indeed. For  about 6 weeks before release into  anyone who has come across wounded or orphaned  the wild - cost: anywhere from  fauna in our unique foothills and froze at the  $9 for a House Finch to $83.00  thought of what to do ... there's help.  Robin. That's because a robin  Wildlife Rescue, Inc. started in 1980 wilh a  requirements are far more complicated.  . And the bunnies  If injured - call Wildlife Rescue immediately.  mails only need  group of technically- rost up to $79 for a 6 week stay  !rained rehabilirators who  that Dufuss offered? Desert Coao  ~ M EX/ C  oo:qxed injured wiki crea- $12 of attention before they're ready for the world.  ~ O  rures of all l<inds; reared  Wildlife Rescue is supponed by private  J~ them, restored them to  donations, as well as a gram from the the NM Game  "- "  heahh arx1 retuiml tmn  & Fish "Share with Wildlife" Program. You can help  O  §  :i:; to the wild. Since then,  them as well as our wildlife in several ways. You  ,j  ;::; around 1,000 protected.  can aain to be a rehabilitata or volunteer to answer  't- ):?  threatened and endan- phones, do filing or give educational talks. You can  .,, -¥.  >:.'  gered animals r11111m~  I) Js 3 "ii ~  are cared fir ard  over 9,000 calls  haOOIOO annual- ly. The~  ...ms in oonjuooKJn wilh  NM Game & f1sh arxl the U.S. f1sh & Wikllife  Savi:e ard the number of \dunr.eel5 ~  ~  00 the seaoon.  When not at the Fairgrounds, ani- mals are mused back to healih in individual  homes dependin on the species. This  to date. 75% of~ visitors have~~  injured birds like sparrows, do~":'ii'i'.i';;;'.  mingbinls and Slllrlings. But they've reha- bilitated squirrels, prairie dogs, weasels,  marmots, coyotes, porcupines, turtles,  lizards, deer, bobcats and snakes. (And  several of us kitty OWl1e1l; helped them stan  a baby runny hutch!) Hawks, roadrunners.  Wildlife Res<ue voU1lletr feeds.., "*"""' bird .. a  -~ Q:nd.~~~Gl'll"--- I Vote "For"  also become a member and support their efforts with  your dues - and get The Fledgling newsletter to keep  informed about wildlife issues and events.  BOND ISSUE B  Better Schools for Better Jobs  Bond Issue B will:  • Provide $26.5 million to build, update, and equip classrooms in 62 school districts around the state.  • Grant the University o( New Mexico $2 million for instructional facilities upgrades.  • Build a $3 million service and operations center at Albuquerque TVI.  • Finance capital improvements at 12 other state institutions of higher learning, and secure $11 million  in matching federal funds for such facilities.  Invest in the future of New Mexico  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  +<:::NORTH  NEW DEVELOPMENT COMMITIEE REPORT  Expansion and Remodeling of the Outpost Ice Arena  The Outpe6t Ice Arena has submitted plans  for an addition, a parking sttuaure and remodeling.  The owner, Bob Martin. has made two presenta- tions to the Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association in the last few months. A summary of  the propooed wodt is below.  CUrreruly the Ice Arena has 36,344 sq. ft.  The propooed addition wiD expand the facility to a  total of 66,850 sq. ft. to be built on what is the now  the paved parking area to the south of the existing  en!131lre (see drawing). Thi5 addition would aa:om- modate another Iink and increase sealing for spec- tators from 680 to 891 seats. The project also  Includes a new 1-112 story parking struaure; the  second floor having a half wall to screen cais, bu!  no roof. From drawings provided, it appears to  SHHA that the struaure wiD be no higher than 15  ft. above average existing grades. There are aurent- ly 84 paved parking spaces on-site and 100 spaces  in an unpaved lot jlJ.5t to the south of Circle K. The  new parking sauaure wiD have 260 spaces, and  the other paved area to the back (north) of the  Arena will have another 100 spaces, increasing  parking capacity by 1 70 spaces.  In rCS{>Onse to initial neighborhood con- = expressed at Board meetings, BOO Martin has  agreed to modify 3 parts of his plan:  1. A bridge wiD be built acroos the arroyo, linking  the County Line Restaurant parking area with the  Arena's new garage. Cars can exit onto Tramway  lane as well as the County Une parking area to  head north on namway Blvd. Both establishments  have signed a joint use agreement to share the new  parking struaure.  2. An 8' high. block wall wiD be built along the ea.st  propeny line f0< the lenglh of the on-gr.>de parking  area to screen it from the view of  neighboring rondominiwns.  3. All outdoor li(:hting wiD be of  the lowest intenslty atceptable for  security. Mr. Manin will review  all lighting with· the Association  prior to proceeding.  A traffic analysis study  was done by the finn of Bartoo- Aschman Associates, Inc. on  behalf of the Oucpost It states  that the additions wiD have "only  minimal impaa on traffic dwin  peak hours,. and that ~  traffic associated with the pro- posed facility will not result in  substandard operations on streets  in the inunediate vicinity. Their  check of traffic signals indicated  that the two-way stop signs at  the intersection of Tramway Blvd.  and Tramway lane can remain  and should rontinue to operate satisfaaorily.  The SHHA New Development Committee  has received c:al1s from surroundin residents con- cerned about the additional craf!ic through the  neighborhood, pollution and noise. At present we  have not formed an opinion pro or ron regarding  the project. The plans appear to meet our  oovenants. However, the Board has voted to do fur- ther research and obtain a second opinion on the  trallic situation. We feel that the Barton-Aschman  study may have been geared to assess the impact  on the inter.>eaion at namway Blvd. rather than on  vehicles taking shortruts to exit through the neigh- borhocxl The Cowtty Line Restaurant traffic may  """''  indeed exit more vehides onto Tramway lane than  the study projects - especially since it is known that  the State Tumsportation Board has the right to dose  off the restaurant's access to Tramway Blvd.  The New Development Committee recom- mends that concerned neighbors fonn their own ad- hoc committee and draft a consensus (either pro or  con) for their own presentation to the County when  the time romes. It should also be presenred by one  representative to the SHHA Board, which will then  vae on its recommendation to the County.  Questions can be directed to SHHA  Committee member Chm Hamloo at 856-1953.  SHHA Events Update  By Claire Wilcox - SHHA Community Services, Chair  Autumn Arts & Crafts Bazaar  IC was a BIG happening held Sunday, October 20dl, at the Sandia  Heights Academy. By now we can call chis delighcful show "an Annual  Event," since Sandia Heights homeownets have too a Craft Fair for 8 or 9  years now. Hope you all bad a chance to attend and see the many diverse  offerings. With the holidays around the oorner, the Bazaar was a boon for  early shoppers and a wonderful opporomity to see neighbors and friends  either displaying their wares or buying gifts. If we missed you, there will be  anodler SHHA Crafts Bazaar nexI Claober. Watch for dates in The Grit  3rd Annual Wine Tasting - Saturday, March 8, 1997  I~  It looks like our Annual Wtne Tusting in March will be the next  SHHA affair. Pat Vogel, spokesperson for National Disoibuting, has  ( LI  once again graciously offered to provide the wide variety of wines that  has made chis event so popular for both the connoisseur and novice.  At present, the time and location have noc been determined. Last  year the event was held in the evening. but we're considering a change  ___.......  to late afternoon, between 4-6pm, so participants have a chance to go  out for dinner afterwards. There are no known conllicting spons or tourist events ocruning  on Saturday, March 8th, so plan now to invice friends and attend. If you have suggestions  for a location, please call 856-6282. Your help with ideas would be very much appreciated.  San<fia Heights residents enjoy the October coffee with hostess Celeste Loughridge Oeft).  Longhorn Sheep Delayed  By Margo Roberts - SHHA Board Member  Back in the May '96 Grit there was an article on the proposed reintroduction of the  native Rocky Mountain Longhorn Sheep in the Sandias by chis fall. According ID Ray  Churan of the New Mexico Chapter of the Foundation for North American Wild Sheep  (FNAWS), chis high priority project has been posqioned until the Deparnnent of Game and  fish (DGF) ~pTetes a statewide plan that will oucline strategies to increase the number  and di5tribunon of Rocky Mountam Sheep m New Mexico.  Meanwhl!e. the United States Forest Service (USFS) continues to improve sheep habitat in  the. San~ and Manzano m.ounrams. A water development project at the Piedra Lisa  Springs m the Sandias, to which FNAWS has contributed $2000 cost share money, is Q.lf- rently underway. These  improvements will benefit  all wildlife. Despite the  months of delay, Mr.  Churan, who gave a lec- ture on the project at the  ABQ Open Space Fireside  Chat Series at Elena  Gallegos in August, says  that FNAWS wants to see  longhorn sheep in the  Sandia mountains for  future generations. They  will continue ID work with  DGF, USFS, Sandia Pueblo  and other cooperating  ~ncies in meeting  Residents attend one of the Fireside Chat Series on  chis objective.  Bighorn Sheep sponsored by ABQ Open Space at Elena Gallegos.  Spring Baseball Game (1]J  Family fun! Why not? Plan on taking them out to the  Ball Park for an evening game - time and date ID be announced.  ·  During one of the innings, the Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association will be announced and we can all scand up and cheer. Hollering  and hoodng-ls allowed. So Stan thlnl<ing hotdogs and peanutS and steafu\g  bases, and we'll make chis event a homerun for oµr residents! More later.  ~  Special Interest Groups  ,4J  We've ralked about "special interest groups" before, but there  {..7 are. ~Y newcomers ID Sandia Heights, so we need ID update  .  our mvttaoon. Many folks are interested in a particular ropic or activ- ity and. would love the chance ID meet others with the same proclivity.  Would you ~  to.JOOl a book reading/dlSCUSSion group? How about quilting?  Wildflower 1denaficat10~? Hiking? Gounnet Cooking? Creative writing?  Blfding? A women's sm~g group or a Once-A-Month-Out-for-Lunch Clu&?  Just caI! Holly at 821-7204.  Who's Holly? Holly Wilkenfeld moved to Sandia Heights in April and  ~  gemng her house m order began looking for an an group in the commu- ruty. "With all the talented people living up here, I can't believe that there  aren't a lot of interest groups for me ID choose from.· she said. It motivated  her ID become a concaa person for anyone wanting ID scan a special group.  Holly has a degree from Parsons School of Design in New Yolk and  has been involved in teaching, oil painting. horticultural illustration, an thera- py, gardening. nature hikes and a host of other areas related ID her love of an.  She's I?oking for a group of like-minded souls with whom she can ~e  her amsoc battenes, perhaps rent a model, and paint rogether. Artmania aside,  Holly has volunteered ID help in the fonnation of illl!l interest group, so give  her a call and scan having a great time with others.  ·~ .  Sandia Heights Wildflower Club  presents  Robert DeWitt I~ey  Noted botanist and author of  Flowering Plants of New Mexico  speallin11 on  "Our Native Grasses"  Wednesday, November 20 • 7:00 pm  Home of Susan Cooll Teresi  1480 Morning Glory Rd.  856-1669  Discussion. questions. refresh men ts  Also fall seed exchan~ - brin11 your favorites  Prospective new members welcome!  THE GRIT  Native American Holiday Crafts  ··  · Market at "Futures"  1996 Special Edition  "Buffalo" Ornament from  Futures for Children.  A Native American Ans and Crafts Market will be held on  Saturday, November 30 between I 0:00 am. and 3:00 p.m. at the  Furures For Children Learning Center at 9600 Tennyson, NE.  The market will feature handcrafted work from many of the  American Indian reservation communities served by Futures for  Children's community education programs. More than 30 silver- smiths, pooers, jewelry makers, beadworkers and other artisans will  present a wide array of items perfecl for holiday shopping. Native  American food.5 and homemade desserts will also be olfererl for sale.  A portion of the event's proceeds will benefit Furures for Children.  Furures for Children is a private, non-profit organization that has  been working effectively with Native American children and their  families in the Southwest for the past 28 years and in Latin America  for 35 years. The market is being hosted by the Friends of  Futures/Albuquerque, a local volunteer group.  "Furures' Native American Arts and Crafts Market will provide a unique opportunity to support boch  individual artists and a dynamic local organization that serves their communities". says Carolyn Donald, Co- Chairperson of the l'riends of Furures. "It's a nice convenience, too", she adds. "We're creating a 'mini-ponal  of the Palace of the Governors' in Sandia Heights.  For more information call Carolyn White at Futures for Children 821-2828.  filCPl A View from the Ranger's Station  Effective November 1, 1996, there will be  a charge for parking at all of the developed parldng  areas on the Sandia Crest National Scenic Byway (NM  536) in accordance with the Demonstration Fee  Projea. It is a tluee year test to see if our srakeholclec;  and forest users can support the maintenance of our  developed sites. The charge is $3 for cars and tru:ks:  $10 for vans or busses with capacities of 15 passen- gers or more. We also will offer an annual ixiss for  $30 that will be valid from January I to December 31  of the year of pun:hase. These ixisses should be avail- able by November !st and will be valid from the date  of issuance to December 31, 1997.  Another projea about to start is the annual  Christmas 'n-ee Sale-By-Mail program. Applications  for cutting personal use Christmas trees will ·be avail- able November 7th at some local post offices and  Sears in Albuquerque, Again the program is for the  Santa Fe and Cibola National Forests. We offer over  5,000 trees each year on the )emez. Peros/las Vegas  and CUba Districts of the Santa Fe National Forest and  Mt Taylor, Magdalena and Mountainair Districts of  the Cibola National Forest  Call Neel Marsh or Dismi:t Ranger Floyd  711ompson at the Sandia Ranger Stadonfar more  ilJ/i>rmalion - 281-3304.  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  1ln Lnli119 & Shopping u11aingn11m  November 1, 2 & 3 ......  ALBUQUERQUE CONVENTION CENTER  ,.....  Friday, IOAM-9PM  Saturday, 10AM-8PM  Sunday, 10AM-6PM  Ont Doy Ctntra.I Admission SUXl  fttt AdmW!onlorchild!!nundttll~  food Covporu arr 50u ach  .--. .  1ij  .  Special EventJ Include.>  ~  . • ,., !;;  Celebraci6n Ole  ~~  ,,I  Friday, 7PM-12>.M  l- GO  a1adr1tW.OVv1tr&SOO'llkictiM  \1. ,,  Samantha's lee Cream Social"  Saturday, IPM & Sunday I IAM  MArntit'ariGlrl'J CW111'  Hyatt Holiday Ole  SK Fun Run/Walk  & I K Kids Run/Walk  Sunday, 9.u<  ~ uif~,..;.n,r111w ,,,,., u.,..r•~ -­ for rnon \Jlformadon co.11 JL.A - Ml.0199  HOME REMODELING  "The Best New Home May  Be the One You're Living In."  Whaf s Odorless, Colorless  and Can Invade Your House?  DESIGN BUILD means our clients receive professional  design, careful planning, detailed specifications, firm pricing  and quality construction for over 15 years.  DESIGN TO FINISH - All In One Place/  No Down Payment / No Equity R.cp.iir9d / 0% Down, 10.~APR  on apprOY9d etedit. 180 monCN.  ~  'Im/in  CallToday/883-4040  or V1s1t our Design Center  2426 Washington N E  DESIGN REJ.100EUNG INC  (Just South of Menaul)  By Claire Wilcox - SHHA Community SeNices Chair  No, it's llO! a ghOSI! But it could be RAOON. CreepiJ!g into homes from  the underlying soil through cracks and holes around ground pipes. radon IS a nat ·  urally oa:urring radioactive gas. A by-product of decaying uranium which IS found  all over the United States, radon is more common in some states than in others.  The main concern is radon's link to cancer. This link, while dependent on many  variables, has lately been the focus of much researth and publicity.  A $6.00 test kit available from the Bernalillo County Environmental  Health Department can be used to check for radon in_Your home. The kit ~  giv_e  you a complete explanation of how it works; but basically, the measunng mgredi·  ent is activated carbon which is placed in the lowest livable area of your home for  4. or 5 days. It measures the radon in the air and is 90% accurate.  Why isn't a radon test done before homes are built? Because it won't de  any good. Radon enters the house due to the negative pressure inside - walls anc  ckJsed,windows create a slighdy negative atmosphere which en=ges radon tc  seep up into the house. Tucfay, radon resistant construOJOn IS achieved by laytn!  down a layer of gravel and stones below the concrete slab.  . Remediation for radon already in the house is to create a positive insid1  pressure. This can be done professionally and is done automatically when you US<  swamp coolers in the summer. Since a closed house encourages the rising c  radon, fall and winter are the best times to test for radon since concentrations ten•  to be the highest and therefore provide the most accurate test results.  To purchase the kit i;o to: the 5th floor of Plaza de! Sol or 3rd floo  of one Civic Plaza, or can Nick at 924-3670.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  Recycling Is ON Again  By Claire Wilcox - SHHA Community Services, Chair  Once again our recyding program seems to be  moving ahead as planned. The county has agreed to  supply the truck every month as on previous Recycle  Sarurdays and so far has been true to their word. I know  many of you were wooied that recyclables were"going  to the dump and llQ1 being recycled.· But Richard  Brusuelas, the County Direaor, assured me that this  happened only once and that was due to a strike by the  pdsoners noonally handling these materials at the city  dump. So keep the faith ... and the papers, aluminum,  cardboard, etc .. ooming1  In oaober members of the North Albuquerque  Acres 4-H Oub, under the leadership of Sandia Heights  resident Andrea carvey, panicipar.ed in our recycling pro- gram and will rereive credit for their community work.  They had a fine time "squashing" aluminum cans so  they would be easier to pock in the truck. If you would  like to help our efforts, you can have the same job! Irs a  scress reliever. and only takes one good stomp. Or you  can help in any other way on the fuse Sarurday of the  month from 9 to noon. Call Claire Wilcox at 856-6282.  We all owe many thanks to the following  volunteers for their time in the past months:  In SeW:mbet  lil..QaQb!:r  Bill Stabler  Jay_ Hartfield  Margo Guerra  Sally Churan  James Grossman  Mary Henderson  l>avid Wilcox  Andrea carvey  Emily carvey, 4-H  Laura 'llchy, 4-H  1::1111111111111111111112  - - - STORE YOUR - - HOLIDAY SURPRISES - - - - WITH US!!  - - 5' X 5' Special $25.00 a Mo. - - - - BEAR CANYON - - - - SELF STORAGE - - - - 4730TRAMWAY, NE - - - - (Just North of Montgomery - Next to Giant&.. Smith 's)  292-2300  4-H members, including troop leader Andrea  Carvey (I.), aaughter cmily and laura Tichy  have a smashing good time stomping cans.  Recycling- Or Whaf s in  Your Neighbor's Garage  Ever wonder what your neil?:hbor is storing in  his garage? Well, it all came to 1ight during the  Bernalillo County Hazardous Waste Recycling day  Sarurday, September 28th. Here is a compilanon of  what our neighbodlood dispooed of.  Total pounds collected: 6,519 pounds  Nmiber of cars porticipating: 66  HAZARDOUS WASTE collected  Flanvnables: 1,405 pomds (paint, enamels)  Poisons: 470 pounds (pesticides, herbicides, malathion)  Flammable material: 387 pounds (charcoal lighter,  gasoline, paint removers)  Corrosives: 350 pounds (toilet bowl cleaners, tarnish  removers, batteries)  Antifreeze: 400 pounds  Oils: 175 pounds  SOLID WASTE collected  6,000 pounds (furniture, lrosh,. blcycles, car pa'1s etc)  It's all good news too. First of all, recycling  these products through the proper channels keeps it  out o( our ground water and secondly, the recyclers  make a blend of the Oammables and use it to generate  power for their recycling plants. The solid wasre goes  up to a landfill site in Colorado and the hazardous  waste goes to EPA permitted sites in Utah or  Oklahoma. fun Casaus, the Environmental Scientist  who generated these numbers said that the county is  going to offer this outreach recycling program two  times a year - Spring and Fall. For funher information  (or to say thanks), coruaa fun at 924-3650.  If you can't wait till Spring there is a perma- nent facility for free recycling of household ha1.ardous  waste at RINCHF.M, Inc, 6133 Edith NE.  FALL-1996  SANDIA HEIGHTS  SECURllY PATROL RESPONSES  January- September 1996  1YPE OF CAU;  NUMBER:  Alarms ......................................... 474  Open Door/Window .................... 46  Motorist Assist .............................. 12 7  Breaking & Entering .....................  8  Attempted Breaking & Entering......  10  Construction Site Burglary ........ :...  2  Vehicle Burglary ..........................  18  Suspicious Vehicle ....................... 142  Suspicious Person ......... ...... ....... .. 60  Peeping Tom ................................  6  Theft (Larceny) ............................. 28  Animal Control Assist ................... 26  Lost /Found.Pet .. ~ ..........................  41  Pet Nuisance................................ 16  Snake ........................................... 18  Family Dispute .............................  8  Neighbor Dispute .........................  7  Loud Disruptive Party ................... 13  Fireworks Complaint ....... ,............  7  Vandalism (General) ..................... 75  Mailbox Vandalism ......................  54  Mailbox Stolen .............................  6  Lost/Found Items ..........................  6  Deer Hunters ................................  0  Speeding Vehicle .......................... 1 0  Assault /Battery (Fight) ..................  4  Death Threat ................................  5  Unusual Special Request .............. 41  Salesperson Problems.................... 13  Phone Problems............................  7  Car Accident.. ...................... -....... 15  Motorcycle Nuisance ....................  6  fire ............................................... 33  Rescue.......................................... 38  Utility Company Assist.. ........... '..... 36  Construction Sites ...... .'................... 12  Vacant Houses (For Sale, etc.)........ 22  Specials (Extra patrols/observation) 31  Homeowners on Vacation ............. 1895  TOTAL CALLS .......•.......•...•.•.•••••... 3395  Total Mileage .••.•....•••.••........•.•• 372SO  Days Security Vehicle i'n Shop ....... 4.5  SHH A  THE 2NO WHNESDAY Of EVERY MONTH  PASEO DH NORTI FIRESTATION - 7:00PM  ..  1  1  <  EVOLUTION OR CREATIONISM?  Call 856-1655 for a tree NO OBLIGATION book answering this and many other questions such as:  ADAM AND EVE  PREDESTINATION MIRACLES  RESURRECTION  BAPTISM  REINCARNATION  HEALING  MOSES  THE TRINITY  BmTH OF CHRIST PROPHETS  For recorded information about The Baha'i Faith call 856-2911, (out or area 800·684-4993).  it.I  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  ~IITID~ IPIBCIDrn U LIM Sandia Heights Pioneer  Is Hard At Work  Jim Walker and cat VIOiet enjoy the view  from the rustic deck of his North Sancfia  Heights home. He is the Southwest  Regional Director for the ~ogical  Conservancy, a national orgaruzation that  is preserving historiCal sites.  By Ca10/yn Hinde/ - Ctit Editor  If you want ro .know about the early days  of Sandia Heights, Jim Walker's furtive brow will  crinl<le and his mind's eye will go lleetin.g back ro  the days of-Ben Abruzzo and Bob Nordliaus and  their vision of a unique community in these mes- memmg foothills. They were sua:essful in negotiat- ing a 40-acre parcel from the Forest Service and  building the original tram and a desen botanical gar- den just ro the south.  fun has lived up here since 1972, when his  parents Wanda and james Walker bought one of the  acre loo; offered in the first subdivision that would  <1111 Scarring from  an underground  pipeline can be  seen behind the  group touring  a house mound  within the 17th  century Spanish  village site.  "Saving The Past For The Future"  become Nath Sandia Heights. They were living on  what was considered the outskins of Albuquerque  at the ci.me - Louisiana and Montgomery - and  jumped at the opporrunity ro live amidst the boul- ders, vegetation, wildlife and incredible views of the  Sandia Mountains.  fun was 20 at the ci.me and a junior at UNM  majoring in Anthropology. He designed the 2000  sq. ft. wood home that was to be built with the  national forest as its back yard. And 24 years larer,  he's adding on an addition and renovating the  kitchen, still keeping the wann rustic feel of his orig- inal plans.  Being first in new territD!)I is also true of  Jim's fascinating career. He is the Southwest  Regional Director for the Archaeological  Conservancy, a first of its kind, non-profit organiza- tion dedicated ro aaiuiring and prcxeaing important  historical sites located on private land throughout  the country. It's further goal is ro help establish  archaeological preserves for public education and  furure research. How he came ro this position is an  interesting saga of many life direaions converging  inroone.  Fascinated by the southwest culture, Jim  sought his BA in Anthropology, encompas.5ing eth- nology (living culrures): arthaeology (past Cll!rures):  linguistics (language & origin of cultures); and  physical anthropology (genetics). He took his first  job in 1973 at The School of American Research in  Santa Fe as a lab supervisor. But a lack of career  expansion there sent him back to school for his  MBA in 1975. In an effon to broaden his financial  horizons during that time, Jim got a real estate  license in 1978 and successfully sold property in the  Northeast Heights until 1981, when 1 796 interest  rares put the housing market inro a tailspin.  It was then that fun ran aaoos an ad in the  journal looking for someone with an MBA, real  estate license and degree in anthropo!®.  Whoa. Thus began his new job with ilie  · •  Archaeological Conservancy which was  noc in the mood ro expand its park sysrems, but so  years from now that mood may change,· he says.  One of the most important sites to be  donated to the Conservancy was the Spanish  Colonial Village of San Jose de las Huertas (The  Gardens), located <t the northern end of the Sandias  near Placitas. In 1767, the Spanish governor of  Santa Fe is.5Ued a royal grant of land for the rown  and by 1 779 the village consisted of a fortified wan  surrounding houses, scabies and gatdens with an  irrigation system nearby. It is a relatively pure, sin- gle-component site from this period, rare because  most have been destroyed by development or  altered significantly by continuous occupation.  Several P\Jeblo pots exc:av.ited ITom a kitchen floor at  San Jose de Las Huer1as (map below).  I  ...' )(  /  founded in California in 1979 by concerned  archaeologists and preservationists, includ- ing former Secretary of the Interior, Stuart  Udall. His son Tum Udall is NM Attorney  General. The national headquarters moved  to Santa Fe in 1980 and then to  Albuquerque 4 years ago with regional  offices in Ohio, California and Georgia There  ·.Shell, ~t\1, [a,,,. bitlOll ( /_~~  \  //c  . .  I  \  .-"' ·· ..... ·  are 12,000 member.; nationwide, with  I 000 in New Mexico. But the munber  is ~g  as people begin ro find ouc  what this special organization is doing.  A new national magazine may soon  visualize its mission.  Laws have long been in place  ro pro<ect historic sites on federal/State  land. But there are no restrictions on privately  hekl land, except for a Burial Law (no distur- bance of human remains) in some states.  Locxing of burial sites, removal of artifacts from  non-grave sires, enaoachin~ development, as  well as excavation by legiwnate sources are  contributing to a major loss of cultural  resoortes. Walker believes the only ruins left in  25 years will be those that have been system- atically proceaed.  Archaeological sites on private land  usually survive only by the whim of the  landowners - they can preserve it or they can  destroy It says fun. As the Conservancy's regional  direaor, he works dC6ely with them ro create situa- tions where everybody wins. By donating sites,  landowners get a tax break, local homeowners gain  open space and archaeologists have undistucbed  sites for future research when technological  advances afford greater insights and capabilities.  ·Archaeologists destroy a site when they excavate.  The placement of dues is audal ro the overall inrer- pret;azion and they can never get an the dues back ·  m the same order again.· fun scresses that research  is allowed on acquired sites, but managed in such a  way as co leave a major portion of it intact. "Our  goal is ro have the best sites preserved as city, crun- ty a- national packs. Right now the goverrunent is  \  The Conservancy also uses the monies  from membership and donations ro purchase sires.  when donation or bequest is not a possibility. A  Preservation FUnd is set up to use funds over and  over again as acquisitions are reconveyed for public  use. Among its New Mexico holdings are a number  of pueblo ruins, such as San Marcos near Santa Fe,  believed ro be the ~est in the nation; San Felipe  near Socorro, site of die vanished Piro culrure; and  Henderson-Bloom near Roswell, the easternmost  pueblo ever discovered. Another Conservancy prop- ecty overlooking the Rio Grande is believed ro be the  campsite of Coronado's party during their first foray  into what is now the United Sta!es in the winter of  1540-4 I . The site was found during the widening  of NM 528. Masc recently, Gardwios contacted the  Conservancy offering ro preserve an historic site  found on its West Sile restaurant development  Over 16 years, 125 preserves have been  created in 24 scares. And for Jim, this means 5096 of  his time on the road, covering Arizona, Utah,  Colorado, New Mexi::o, 'Jexas, Oklahoma, Louisiana  and Arkansas. But the fruits of his labor are truly  rewarding and he always finds his little piece of  Sandia Heights a joy ro come home ro.  The Archaeological Conservancy offers  tours of many sites, as well as guided trips to  Mexico and Central American Indian ruins.  For an information paclcet, call 266-1540.  TH E SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  FALL-1996  Liv.ing with Wildlife in Sandia Heights :~~:~c:i;,~::;:s;,~,:::,~,Biology, UNM  Mule deer grazing in  the gathering sunset. coyores  how1ing on a dear cold night,  aacks of a bobcat in an arroyo  following a summer storm.  Living dose to wildlife fills us  with a sense of beauty and  wonder at the natural world. But  feelings change when we're asking  "Where's Rovet7" or "What happened  to my tomatoes?" When pets disap- pear or gardens are eaten, appreciation quickly gives  way to liusuation and anget  In exceptionally dry years, narural food sup- plies in the mountains will fail. When Albuquerque  was very small, bears and other animals migrated to  the Rio Grande bosque until the dry times passed.  Now miles of homes stand in the way and hungzy  animals are not always welcome. Residents on the  cicy's edge have a choice: get rid of offending species  or learn to coexist with them.  Mankind has not always chosen to coexist  with wildlife. Concerns of western caalemen in the  late 1 SOO's led to extensive government trapping,  poisoning. and hunting campaigns against predators.  The grizzly bear and wolf were eliminated, and  mountain lion populations were severely reduced. By  taming che wilderness and destroying che dangerous  animals, the success of the American expansion  across North America seems to have left us with the  notion that we should never have to put up with  croub1esome animals. But it is not always desir- able or even possible to eliminate wildlife  from our midst  In Sunderbans, an area on the  border of Bangladesh and India, tiger.;  eat about 75 people eveiy year. There  have been no campaigns to wipe out  tiger.; and the peopfe do not hate  them. They see the tiger as an int.e- m! pan of cheir religion, and thus of  their lives. They see themselves and the  ti,gez' as parts ol a laigec whale.  Coyotes have thrived in the presence  of hwnans, despir.e decades of efforts to  eliminate them. Ironically, the destruction of their  chief predator, the wolf, has allowed coyotes  to expand into areas where chey had not been before.  It is essentially impossible to keep coyotes out of  Sandia Heights. The coyote has won and it is we who  have to adapt  Coexisting with wikllife does not have to be a  baale, if we take the time to learn the needs and  habiis of the species involved and take a few relative- ly simple actions to prevent a:mllia. For example, the  Masai people of eastern Africa maintain a pastoral  lifestyle, herding cattle in the midst of lions, leopards,  and hyenas. Knowing that the predators hunt primar- ily at night and will not attack in the presence of  people, me Masai  use a simple solu- tion to protect  their cattle: young  boys guard the  caale by day and  bring them into safe enclosures by night cattle are  never simply turned loose to fend for themselves as  done here in the West  Coyotes, mountain lions, black bears, and  deer may enr.er Sandia Heights when their nonnal  fear of hwnans is overcome by hunger. All of these  animals are normally most active dunng dusk, night,  and dawn, but may be active during daytime wlien  hunger has driven them from their normal habits.  Coyores and mountain lions may seek prey, such as  rabbits and deei; in areas near houses. Black bears  and deer will seek fruiting plants and gardens.  Coyotes and bears are very attracted to garbage.  Coyotes, mountain lions, and black bears will atrack  peis, even in the presenoe of people. 'Iypically they  use bushes, trees, and darl<ness to conceal their pres- ence. These animals will occasionally attack people,  especially children. Based on these fuas, here are a  few suggestions to avoid conJlia wich wildlife:  • Keep children and peis indools or in a safe enclo- sure, especially at night Realize that allowing any  child or pet to run loose without an adult in close  proximity is taking a risk.  • Eliminate ~  places near your home; such as  open spaces below porches or decks and those low  hanging branches.  • Install outside  lighting equipped  with motion detectors.  However, lights in Sandia  Heights must not shine  direaly into other residences.  • Put a "covenant approved" elearic fence around  gardens. compost piles, fruit trees. beehives, garbage  cans, or any other potential food source. These fences  are very effective without being hannful. Check with  the homeowners' Association first  • Tuke in AlL birdfeeders at night  • When walking with dogs or children, avoid likely  places for animals to be, such as deep arroyos,  brushy areas, and areas with berry bushes or prey  like rabbiis. Stay dose to children. • Learn to identify  the aacks and signs of resident species.  • carry a canister of pepper spray when walking .  • If you do encounrer a large predator and it does  not run from you, back away slowly, facing the ani- mal. Do not run, which is what prey would do. Avoid  cornering the animal.  • lly to understand why the animal is not rurming.  Is chere food or young nearby? Do not get between a  bear and cubs.  • Avoid staring at the animal-a sign of aggression.  • Collea small children and pets into your arms.  • Yell fumly and throw sticks or stones.  • If a coyote or mountain lion atracks you, Flghd  Hwnans can fend off these animals. If a bear attacks .  you. play dead for a minute, Cll!ling up and protecting  your head and neck. If che bear continues the anack,  it may int.end to eat you, so fighd  If an animal is seen repeatedly in the same  area and causes problems, it may be necessary to call  the New Mexico Oepamnent of Game and Fish (841- 8885). Keep in mind that trapping and relocating an  animal may only result in a temporary solution,  because many animals will rewm. Animals that can't  return usually die from lack of fumiliarity with !heir  new homes or conflias with residents.  If you have questions or concerns about  wildl!fe, you can call Dr. Harrison at the UNM  Biology Department - 2 77-3411.  In 1995-96 a record number of people  moved to Albuquerque from out-of-state .  What happened then?  112 PEOPLE FROM THE NORTH VALLEY, CORRALES, PLACITAS,  & SANDIA HEIGHTS BOUGHT PROPERTY IN  SAN PEDRO CREEK ESTATES  And here's why ...  San Pedro Creek Estates is the only high-end subdivision  in the Albuquerque area that offers  all of these features:  + a 520-acre Nature Area with trails & year-round running stream  + spacious lO·acre-minimum lot sizes  + excellent restrictive covenants  + underground electric and telephone to lot lines  + paved roads  + an investment with potential for profit  11u Sdler's &clusitu~ Rqnuentative:  LEWINGER HAMILTON, INC.  JIMMOCHO  PO BOX 3040 • ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87190-3040  For rnore information  or a personal tour:  OFFICE: (505) 883-7676  EVENING: (505) 242-1420  ifi  THE GRIT  Residents Spinning a Good Yarn  By Charlotte Zerof - SHHA Communicarions, Chair  For the past twenty-five years, the New  Mexico State Fair has the been the home of a  unique exhibit, Sheep to Shawl. From irs ortgins  on a platfonn in the center of the old sheep and  dally barn to its spacious, air-conditioned spot at  the entrance of the remodeled dairy barn, it  remains the largest volunteer demonstration of  wool crafts in the world both in number.; of partici- panrs and nwnbers of days.  Jointly managed by the New Mexico  Wool Growers Auxiliary and the Las Aranas  Spinners and Weavers Guild, Sheep to Shawl is  exactly that-a demons~ation of the entire  process of turning raw wool into finished produas.  It all starts with the sheep, and each day several  will be shorn in front of the dally barn. Specta!O!S  are able to obseive the shearer's technique and the  sheep's reaction as the wool is quickly and pain- lessly removed. After some sorting, the wool is  rea:ly to be washed and dyed. The first stop inside  Sheep to Shawl is devoted to dye pors, many con- raining the native planrs that have been used for  generations. Next the wool must be carded to pre- pare it for spinning. A drum carder and occasional- ly hand cards or combs are used to arrange the  fibers. Then comes spinning. There are usually  three or four spinners practicing their craft, often  on different types of spinning wheels. All are  happy to share their expertise and answer any  questions the fairgoers may have. Once the wool  has been spun into yam it is woven, knitted or  crocheted into cloth.  An eight-harness floor loom is used to  demonstrate turning fiber into a patterned fabric of  exquisite colors. Finally, everyone is encouraged to  visit the Sheep to Shawl shop where beautiful  handmade clothing and accessories are offered for  sale. If a visit to Sheep to Shawl has piqued an  interest in learning some of the craft, there are also  beginning spinning, weaving and knitting kits,  along with raw fibe~ dyes and yarns available. If  you missed us this year, marl< your calendar for  the next Stare Fair and join  us at Sheep to Shawl.  Las Aranas meets  month{y. For .further iefor- mation call Sandia Heights  residents Charlotte Zero{,  Mary OJl!Dn. SYivia !nkelas  or Norma Keith or write to:  Las Aranas Spinners and  Weavers Guild, P.O. Box  91225, Albuquerque, NM  BT/99-1225.  Master Spinners (I. to r.)  Alice Greybill, Norma  Keith, Charlotte Zerof  and Mary Colton.  Year round. Seven days a week.  Arrt time, day or night, Linda Caldwell is on roll.  No hou.5e too big, no house too small.  She's worked them all and has been doing it  succes.sfully in Sandia Heights for over 18 years.  It's that Sl:NV'f that got her into the Whds Who  in New Mexico Residential Real Estate, the Bite 25  of Albuquerque Realtors and made her one of the  top 5 Metro 100 Realtors. And as a long-time  Sandia Heights resident, Linda knows the territory.  When you're ready to buy or sell in Sandia Heights, make it easy on yourself.  Let Linda do your hOU5€'WOrk. She's already done the homework.  spre~ct the__w;r~0~  · .. -~~-"- • • food Samplinl?!  • Holiday Shopping!  •FUN for the  Whole family!  'tc 41lfferrt! ®Th£  fillrtistnms  Jlfair£  THANKSGIVING WEEKEND  NOV. 29, 30 & DEC. t  SECOND BIG WEEKEND  DEC.6, 7 &8 .............. .  Frl&Sat-9am-6pm 6 FABULOUS DAYS!  Sun-1oam-spm  Admission, S4.oo  :  NEW EXHIBITS  Six Day Pass, S6.00  ~ EACH WEEKEND!  Manuel Lujan  : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • •  Exhibit Halls  ~  '  NM State Fair~rounds ~~~t\t><i ~f.J... \  For more mfo call ~~  I}~ ''  505- 856-1970  Sponsors 'i''\ "'-"'"  FESTIVAL Of THE TREES  The Wtimate in "Des~ner" Tree Creations  Dec.6, 7&8  LIGHTING Of THE TREES & AUCTION  to benefit the Kidney Foundation of New Mexico  Thursday, December 5th- 7pm - IOpm  Desserts • Colfel!s • Wine • Door Prizes • Exhibitors  For reservations contact  ~  KIDNEY FOUNDATION d NM  ..-..::'"  1330 San Pedro NE. Sune 103  N.'.ltional Kidoey Albuquerque, NM 87110  Foundalion'"  505-266-4573  ' •  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  The Fall Harvest: Wreaths For All Reasons  By Shirley Medina- Master Gardener  Fall is my favorite season of the year.  Sep!embc;r, ~  and November are busy, festive  months filled with many aaivities in anticipation of  Wmter and the holidays ro come. This is the lime for  the gardener ro finalizC harvesting and prepare the  landScape for the cold season.  Mild temperarures in the Fall make these gar- den preparations more pleasant F1rst, all the beds  shotild be cleaned of debris, and any dead wood  should be removed. Bulbs, pansies, and chrysanthe- mums can then be set out New mulch or compost is  essential ro procea some sluubs such as roses. Place it  around the base of the shrub. Pine needles make a  fine mulch. Many trees and sluubs can still be planted  girough Novemlier, but be sure ro check with your  favonte nursery for the best varie_ty. Remember ro  continue waterU\g, but on a less frequent basis.  Cleaning the landscape can also be a creative  and profitable venrure. A friend and I like ro set a  work table outside, along with some tea and goodies,  and then gather mareriaJS from the various gardens in  our yards ro make wreaths. We snip interesnng pieces  of herbs, ~gs.  native plants, IJOds, seeds <!fld  bellies ro use m our creanons. Each plant CUl!lng JS  bundled ~rely for easy identification. Tue toliage  is used irnrne<pately ro make the base of the wreatli.  Completion of several bases at onre saves lime. Plants  such as salvias, saa~ers. gornphrena, and laven- der will be hung upside down U\ our garage to arr-dry.  The roses, daisies, and sunflowers will be Oried using  silica gel These will be glued ro the wrearhs at a Jater  date when they've driei!.  Air-<irving is the simplest method to use_ ~  tw0 inches off the sternS of the flowers and ..yipe off  any moisture. Gather them inro bunches and ne them  with a very tigbt rubber band. Hang them .upside  down in an arry dark olace ro dry. The drying nrne  will run from one week ro one month, depeniling on  the individual !lower.  Silica ~  is more complicated but is faster.  Place one-inch of sillca gel in a shaJklo:Y plastic or tin  containeL Place the flower hea1 (leawig a one-mch  srem) face down on the gel, covering all expa;ed parts  with more gel. Flowers sllould not touch each other.  Check for dryness after tw0 days. The perals should  feel like dry papeL Use a sJottea ~  ro remove the  llower from the gel, and a fine amst's brush to wipe  off any excess.  To make the wreath, buy several 8-inch  saaw forms at the hobby S[O~. ~ruich a hanger ro the  form before ~  cornptetety cover the tops of  the form with fOliage:'HedJs such as mint artemesia,  basil or =naiy work well. Attach dumps of these ro  the form using florist's twU\e or strong wire, wrapping  the wire completely around the form. Continue aading  the hedJs, and attaching them in such a manner as ro  hide the exposed sterns, until they have totalll:' and  densel)I covered the wreath form. Any "holes should  be fillei:l in. Allow the wreath ro dry for a week, laying  flat When your flowers have dried, glue them on ro  the hero baSe with a glue gun. Place different types  and colors of flowers at different intervals arouhil the  wreath to get the best effea. You might want ro  design an arrangement that is aesthetically pleasing ro  )IOU on newspaper first before gluing the !lowers onro  the wreath. l'ut"on finishing toUcheS with buds,  bellies, leaves. or ribbons. spray with sealer ro protect  the flowers from shattering.  Wreaths can be a reminder of Spring ro come.  Each one will be your own unique creaoon - a comu- oopia of harvesred materials and boundless imagina- tion. EnjJy them yowself, or give them as gift.  Happy holidays!  ABQ Area Master Gardening Classes Begin  Wednesday, January 151'1andoontiruefor12 weelcs.  Contact Ron Weisenborn at 29'2- 0221 for info.  MASTER GARDENER HOTLINE  292-7144  PI.Al\T OFDIE SEASON  Maximilian Sunflower (Helianthus maximiliani1) is one of the most outstanding,  Late-season blooming perennials available to the New Mexican gardener. Blooms  from this cheery perennial reach their climax of color just in time to greet the  Balloon Fiesta visitors as our "goodwill ambassadors" to the Land of Enchantment.  By the end of summer, cl umps are 4 feet  wide with tall, angular stalks 6-8 feet tall.  Dozens of bright yellow, daisy-like flowers  appear along the stalks in "hollyhock"  fashion. Blooms last from September  through Odober. In the winter when the  stalks and seed heads turn brown, be sure  to leave them, as they provide an excellent  food source for songbirds, finches and  small animals. Then in three to four weeks  prune the stalks to the ground.  The Maximilian Sunflower's native range  is from the midwest all the way down to  Helianthus maximilianii  the southwest. It. is cold hardy to -:40  degrees F. Plant m full sun to partial shade  (south, east and west exposures). Plants are available for sale in the spring,  Planting: Dig a hole twice the size of the root ball and mix 1 part planting mix  with 1 part native soil. Build a berm with soil around the base of the plant. Fill the  basin twice with water to insure a deep soaking. It is important to keep the plant  moist. After the first year, deep soak it every two weeks during the summer, and  monthly during the rest of the year.  Recommended use: It can be used alone to create a colorful perennial screen or  mixed with other perennials or shrubs. Due to its height, be sure to plant it behind  plants shorter than 6 feet tall. Maximilian Sunflowers look striking when planted in  front of an adobe or stucco wall or along a coyote fence - giving a "Santa Fe"  look. Flower stalks can be cut along with other flowers from your garden to create  a lovely fall bouquet.  A related species to the Maximilian Sunflower is the Common Sunflower  (Helianthus annuus). It is an annual where as the Maximilian is a perennial. Both  sunflowers provide a natural food source for wildlife, are very cold hardy and can  be planted anywhere in New Mexico.  ~  ·BAC·  ll(k.r.llMWinge  lllOC lolaUW.11 , iq,..., 111181122  BILLAR1MAN  M!wON DoUAR Qua - Sandia Heights Resident  Providing exceptional service  ~  in x.our interest!  l.~  823-6797  ''The Golden Rule is a pretty good philosophy."  1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111  ~- \ ~Jr  ~(~'  4ALARM Service helps reduce  false alarms in Sandia Heights  • Security systems need reevaluation  from time to time.  • Newer equipment is more reliable  and more user friendly.  • Existing homes can be upgraded  with wireless sensors, eliminating  the need to run additional wire.  • Monitoring rates are guaranteed  for term of the contract.  • No overtime rates for evening &  weekend service calls.  • Can takeover all existing systems.  • Sandia Heights resident. 20 years  alarm business ownership.  Call 858· 0548 for a free  no obligation consultation  111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111  BMC  ROOF MAINTENANCE  NM Licence # 30878  * preventive maintenance  * remedial repairs  * roof restoration  * roof replacement  * maintenance agreements  Call Mike at 897-3766 for your  FREE ROOF INSPECTION  Serving Sandia Heights  since 1989.  ,,,  THE GRIT  Mail-In-Ballots  Re: Open space  By Paul Willems - ABQ Open Space Division, Director  ~"'  • wE <  A proposal  _.A CITT OP  asking city vot- T\}buquerque ers to raise the  sales tax by  one-founh of one perrent for just two  years to buy nearly 9.700 acres of  open space was introduced by City  Councilor Vince Griego. This would  raise the $34-$40 million needed to  buy 24 pieces of propeny located in all  quadrants of the city and Bernalillo  County (including the 140-acre  Anderson field in the North Valley);  and improve 25 existing city parks.  Councilor Griego has intro- duced two bills that will put the issue  on a ballot to be mailed later this year  and r.allied January 14, 1997. The bills  are co-sponsored by four other coun- cilors - Sam Bregman, Sieve Gallegos,  Angela Robbins and Alan Armijo. The  full City Council will meet at the Los  Altos Community Center on October  21st to finalize plans, inducting a list of  the properties and dates for the eleaion.  The proposed special election would be  held by mail, the first such election in  history. The tax would pay for open  space in all quadrants of the metropoli- tan area, with the NW having 11 of the  24 sites. A recent amendment to the  Bill would provide for development of  150 acres of city--OWned parklands in  neighborhocxls throughoot the city.  Councilor Gallegos hopes the  proposal is supported because open  space is needed. "In the short term, it  might nO! look like we need it, but long  term, we do. Anytime you go to great  cities you see that open space makes  them livable. We need to have some  space where people can get away."  Councilor Bregman agreed,  "We should always try to do what we  can to protect our vital natural  resources. I personally believe that one  of those vital resources is Anderson  Field. We should make sure that the  next generation has places like that to  truly enjoy." Mayor Martin Chavez also  suppons the effort to acquire more open  space. "I'll be vO!ing yes," he has said.  The quarter-cent sales cax gen- erates abour $20 million a year in  Albuquerque and translates into an  average of $65 a household. The city's  sales tax has been 5.5625% since  January I st If voters approve the pro- posed hike, it would rerum to 5.8125%  - the rate paid from 1988 through  1995 while the "quality of life" cax was  in effect.  The proposed properties locat- ed in the Northeast Heights indude:  'lies Pistoles, 106 aaes at 'Itamway &  1-40; Balloon Fiesta Park, 60 acres on  Alameda west of 1-25; and portions of  South Pino & La Cueva Arroyos, 25  acres north and south of Paseo del  Norte between San Mateo & 'Itamway.  Another important proposed  land acquisition is so aaes of 1lngiey  Beach that the city wants to develop as  a park near the new aquarium, zoo and  bo!anic gardens.  Reprinted.fem 7h1il fltltdl News- OclJJber  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Beat the holiday shopping rush at The Montebello's  fifth annual Holiday Craft Bazaar. 35 talented, local  ,,,.,.,,..,,..~ artists will offer their one-of-a-kind gift creations.  You'll find everything from clothing, jewelry and  Christmas ornaments, lO handmade stationery,  toys and etched glass. So come out lO this festive  event that's sure lO delight the whole family.  HOLIDA Y  C RAFT BAZAAR  Saturday, November 16  10am-3:30pm  Admission: $1 per person  Kids under 12 free with an adult  Refreshments available  " -""K"-1~ irr ~ENll 'oR LIV1Nl; \l. )),!Ml IN!n  \\\ Mamon.  The Montebello on Academy  10500 Academy Road NE Albuquerque, NM 87111  MAX Sanchez, MBA CRS  Associate Broker  Sandia Heights  Resident  Direct Office: 880-2211  Residence: 856-2211  MAX.imum Commitment  MAX.imum Results  NO OTHER REALTOR/RESIDENT OF  SANDIA HEIGHTS SELLS MORE REAL ESTATE  IN ALBUQUERQUE!  18 Years Of Experience  Produced Over $17 Million in 1995  ~  H. P~_E_G_G  mJ R E A LT Y , INC  · $17 MILLION TO DATE IN 1996!!!  · Integrity  Outstanding Service  · Results  6301 Uptown Blvd. NE · (505) 883-6161  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  FALL - 1996  BERNALILLO COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT NOTICE:  Crossing Guards Needed at  Double Eagle School  If you love the ouuloors, like working with  children and are interested in safety on our streets,  Bemalillo County has two positions open for Croosing  Guards servicing the new Doub!e Eagle Elementaty  School on Lowell NE. Detailed information on  qualification, responsibilities and salary can be  obtained by calling John Lyngen at the Sheriff's  Department - 768-4375. Here is a brief swnmary  of what the job entails.  ~  Work under the direction of  a supervisor at assigned intersections to ensure  the safety and protection of children crossing  roads on the way to school.  RESPONSIBILITJES· Stop oncoming traffic  and escort children across streets. Place and remove  related traffic signs before and after shill  O!JA!JFJCATION· Any com- bination of education and experience  which provides the know-how  required to cany out duties; e.g. learn  basic traffic laws, follow written  insauction, communicace with chil- dren. work with minimal supervi- sion, use good judgement  SCREENING· Employees must successfully  complete a medical and background examination,  comply with County safety guidelines, have a means  of cransportation and pass an oral board exam.  WORKING CONDmONS· Worker will be  exposed to naruraI and sometimes adverse weather  conditions, intermittent traffic noise and exhaust  fumes. Work surfaces may be din or concrete, possi- bly inclined, and subject to wet, dry and at times icy  conditions. Work hazards indude traffic and fumes.  EOU!PMEN] 1\'affic control signs. safety  vests and whistles.  People with physical or mental impairments  that will not interfere with the performance of job  duties are welcome to apply and be considered for  special accommodation.  Other Job Positions Open: CALL BERNALILLO couNTY PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT  fQfililQN; Before & After School Oerk  Typist (Pan-Time Tumporaiy). A junior level  c!e-rical suppon person in an office with several  other staff under close supervis ion of an  assigned supervisor.  OUAlJFlCATIQN·  1. High School Diploma or GED certification.  2. One year of experience in an office setting.  3. Must be able to communicate in oral and  written English.  4. Ability to file, type (40 WPM), use a word  prooessor and computer.  5. Ability to handle a multi-line phone system.  I'QSIJJQN;. Before & After School Program  Cootdinator (Part-Tune Tumporaiy) to wort< under  the direction of the Parks & Recreation Assistant  Director on Grant Program Recreational activities.  4. Knowledge of budgeting and administrative  procedures.  5. Ability to train and supervise others.  6. Ability to establish and mainiain effective working  relationships with supervisors, subordinates,  co-workers and the general public.  OUAUFJCATION·  1. A combination of education and experience  equivalent to a bachelor's degree in physical  education or recreation plus two years experi  ence in the coordinaOO!l of school programs.  2. Working knowledge of necessary fonns submitted  to the Children, Youth & Families Depa.mnent  3. Ability to develop and implement a comprehensive  program of recrearional activities.  7. Ability to conununicate effectively in both oral and  written English.  To apply for these positions, obtain the  SCREENING requirements or funher informa- tion: Contact the Bernalillo County Personnel  Department, One Civic Plaza NW, 10th Floor.  Open Sam -4:30pm, Monday - Friday.  State Senator  District 21  Republican  EXPERIENCE:  - Air Force Academy Graduate, Class or 1970.  - Vietnam War Veteran, Captain, U.S. Air Force:  77 Combat Missions Over Southeast Asia.  Awarded 3 Air Medals.  Awarded Distinguished Aying Cross.  - University of New Mexico:  Master of Business Administration, 1981.  J.D. Law Degre<, 1984.  - State Senator, District 18, Albuquerque, 1989-1992  Judiciary Committee.  Conservation Committee.  Interim Committee on Couru, Criminal  Law and Justice.  - Owner, William F. Davis & A~oc .•. ~w Firm.  - Airplane Owners and Pilots Associ.i.tion:  Civilian Pilot Instructor.  - American Kcnpo Karate Academy:  Martial ArU Instructor.  BILL DAVIS WILL:  - Pledge to Oppose Any Tax Increases.  - Fight Crime, Gangs and Drugs.  - Ensure Fair and Honest Government.  "'/ will ronlinut to fit h1 corruption in zovtrnment as I did  Durint my previous ltrm. Wt nu.d lower taxes and /us  tovtrnmtnl. Wt ntul a 1ovtrnmt n1 which is ruponsive to  the needs of Us d tiu ns, not the nuds of the 1ovunmut1  buu aucrocy ~d st/j-suvin1 tlttlt d off1eials. Please ht /p mt  continue the fithl lo make zovernmenJ a ht /p and not a  hinderana. " - Bill Davis  P.O . Box 6, Albuquerque, NM 87103 - 243-6129  l'Odkr8yC:C.W..•Bect-OMlorSlaSenlior.  '''  TH E GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  New ABQ BioPark Looking for  A Few Good Volunteers  By Catherine Hubbard - BioPark Education Curator  The Albuquerque Aquarium and Rio Grande Botanic Garden will open to the public on December  5, and the citizens of Albuquerque are eagerly awaitinji this special event The aquarium features naturalistic Gulf  Coast exhibits, a real shrimp boat, a beautiful coral reer tank and a huge, dramatic shark tank. The botanic garden  has two lll1ique conservatories, one on the desen and one on the Mediterranean climate, lovely walled gardens  inducting rose and Spanish-Moorish, and a changing demonstracion garden. These two new facilities, along with  the Rio Grande 'li::Jo, make up the Albuquerque Biological Park. If you'd like to get involved at the beginning of  this exciting project, you can join us as a volunteer1  We are currently recruiting Greeting Team members. Aquarium/Bo!anic Garden Greeters will aa as  hosts and hostesses to help visitors plan their stay, answer general questions and provide a friendly, customer-ori- ented service to the thousands of <inticipated visit:O!S. If interested, potential volunteers are encouraged to come to  an informational meeting on Saturday, November 2 from 11:30 -12:30 at the Aquarium/Botanic  Garden Education Building, located at the 2601 Central Ave NW construction site. }Ob descriptions will  . be available at this time, and questions will be answered. The next Saturday, November 9, will be the one day  training, from 9:30 - 4:30. Anyone over 16 years old is eligible to become a Greeting Team member. The skills  needed are flexibility, enthusiasm, corrununication, dependability and a customer-service orientation.  For more informacion, call BioPark Educacion at 7~245. or just show up at the informational meeting  on November 2nd. We hope you decide to join us and help us make this environmental park the very best educa- tional resource it can be.  Bottled \ A t.ate~·  r:., regulations. the result is contaminatect water that may  V V 4  . i~ be bottled and placed on the grocery shelf for sale.  · '  'J  However, regardless of the source, certain  Clear Up the facts  """'· t'flf purification processes can .remove most harmfu'.  By Alyce DeGravelle  ~!Oil orgarusms. Reverse-osmoos JS one process y>hich fil  '(OUR 'BACK'( ARD ON A  T-SHIRT!  (;IJOWS NAHES ;::wo €l6\/ATiONS OF P£AK6 ANO  GWYQ\15. PLUS, Tt/€ OTt/€12 6i!J€ OF rt/€  HOUMTA;N 16 OfV Tt/€ BACK/  _Bernalillo County Environmental Health ..,  /Ji3'.1 ters out color, taste and. contammants hke l.ead,  ·;JI asbestos, mercury and disease-causmg organJSms  The drought may have us all drinking from  like cryptosporidium. Distillation also pwifies water  Graphics Gallery in Winrock Center  the bottle soon - die water bottle, that is. Trouble is...  by using heat to remove harmful organisms.  NM Museum of Natural History Gift Shop  bottled water may not always be as safe as it looks.  The International Bottled water Association  Old Town Card Shop  It all depends on where the water comes  (IBWA} recommends contacting the company directly  from. Some boaled water comes from protected wells  to find out whether their water comes from a prorea- 5undonce Trading Company al La Posada Hotel  and springs and is not very likely to be contaminated.  ed source. If it's from a municipal water supply, be  Other bottled water comes straight from the tap.  sure that reverse osmosis, distillation, or "one- Q-B. Inc.  According to the Environmental Working Group, a  micrometer" filters are used to treat the water. If not,  nonprofit research organimtion in Washington D.C.,  find another brand. Most bottle labels list the bottler's  A unique New Mexico gift !  Order direct from Q-8. Inc. - 29+-6931  We ship anywhere.  many of these municipal water systems have poor  phone number. If not, the IBWA (I -800-92S-3711}  monitoring techniques. Combined with lax federal  can provide assistance.  WINOSrAR CRUIStS  l HOllllO lUl lCI  ll l~ tOiPH!  (/)w<a.di.u ""- wlllt ... IJbU ha.M_ /.oan.d il  huual.lt .uuJ.w.-wlrih La.i.l.L, g.l.id.UtfJ- ~"'1.mlt,J  email oddrau: obinc6rvnio.cc;vn  UPDATE:  Initial Ruling Made  on Pueblo Land Claim  By John· Thomas - Sandia Mountain Coalition  Judge Harold Green, the US Distria Court judge in the lawsuit between  the federal govenunent and Sandia Pueblo, has ruled ro stay all fwther briefing  on the Pueblo's motion for surruruu:Y judgement This is the first ruling in the  case, whk:h began on December 7, 1994. At that time, Sandia Pueblo filed a com- plaint against tlie Depamnent of Interior, seeking a "corra:ted patent" that would  add the west face of the Sandia Mountains to its original holdings. The area  amounts to awroximately ten pen:ent of the Cibola National Forest The lawsuit  also sought to have the Department of Agriculture refrain from the transfer of  9,480 acres to the Pueblo.  This first ruling offidally halts fwther input into the land claim case  Involving the Pueblo and three branches of the government: the US Forest  Service/Dept. of Interior; the Departments of justice and Agriculture; plus the  Sandia Mountain Coalition (SMC} and the Bernalillo County Board of  Commissioners, until the cowt rules on the United States' motion to dismiss the  case for lack of jurisdiction. "We hope this order is an indication that the coun is  actively considering the US goverrunent's motion to dismiss and may soon rule  on it,· said SMC CO<hair Anita Miller, the Coalition's local attorney and chair of  the SMC Legal Committee.  The government filed its motion to dismiss on March 24, 1995. In that  motion, government attorneys pointed out that the government could only be  sued under provisiorJS of the Quiet lftle A~ which sets a 12-year time limit on  such land claims. Since the PuebkJ had not acted on the land claim in over 12  years, the attorneys said, the US Distria Court did not have either jurisdiction or  au!hority to hear the case. )udicial reaction to this position is still pending, along  with motions from Bemalillo Counry and the Coalition to be allowed to testify in  the case. should it come to IIial.  Because the federal government's motion to dismiss has been pending in  US Distria Court for well over a year, Coalition attorneys have requested a confer- ence on an pending motions to determine their starus. The request was made on  June 26, 1996. lnlfl'estingly, says Miller, Sandia Pueblo attorneys suddenly filed  for a summary judgement, requesting that the coun decide the claim in its favor.  "What is notewonhy about the Pueblo's new mocion is that it raises no new facts,  no new law, no new anydtingr said Miller. "This might mean that the Pueblo's  attorneys have run out of ammunition.· The judge's stay on fwther briefings  ~g  the case could mean that the judge is ready to rule on the motion to dis- IIUSS. While this gives the SMC cause (or optimism, Miller said. it is still too early  to "count our chickens."  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  FALL - 1996  It's about Public Service the way it's meant to be .. .  It's about actually fixing a system which is failing .. .  It's about confronting the power brokers head-on .. .  It's about representing your interests and concerns ...  It's all about ...  •  In New Mexico. Today .  ricely  IC T  3  1  D  • Ip  IS TR  Paid for by "Kip Nicely for State Legislature", P. Alexander, Treasurer  Printed by Kinko's  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  LE 11 ERS  ~oo TO THE EDITOR:  l ~  Please direct any articles, comments or correspondence  to The Grit Editor, 1124 Marigold NE  Gobble! t.;obLI~!  Claire de'Roon  I'm glad the house wasn't any darker the  night 1 sraned up to bed and half no<iced something  in the comer of the stair. 1 stopped automatically.  1 wanted to look but didn't at the same time. Probably  a piece of ... what? 1 could tell it was a dark object and  wasn't moving. I wasn't even swe if it was alive. but  a sixth sense told me it was. I bent down and squint- ed a bit to see better.  It was fearful. Flat, dark  and menadng ... about four inches  long with claws like a crab and a  tail rurved over its back ready to  inflict damage to anything tliat  distwbed it It was alive. I blew  on it and it turned toward the  disturbance. l had never seen  anything like this before and  1 knew instinaively it was dan- gerous. Probably poisonous.  1 ran to the kitchen  and reaieved a jelly glass to  plop over it until I could gather  the courage to kill it But then  1 thought maybe I had discovered  something really unusual.  I found out that 1 wasn't alone;  that I had been invaded by something  from a monster movie and that many of  you have probably seen the same thing in your  homes. My invader was a Vmegaroon or American  Whip Scorpion. They're related to spiders and true  soorpions, which usually are small and live beneath  stones, logs or leaf debris. But the Vmegaroon has  adapted to the arid climate of New Mexico (and  apparently to the coziness of my house!)  Anita Miller's the Ticket  Every neighborhood and community has  outstanding members who have given countless  hours to make a difference where they live. I would  like to give my support to Anita Miller for  Senator/Disuict 21 (D) as a laudable member of our  community, a good neighbor and qua1iJied profes- sional. She has been on the Governor's Tusk Foo:e/  Groundwater; an adjunct professor at UNM School  of Arthireaure and School of Law; and a law part- ner at Miller, Lucero & Associates, involved with  land use and zoning. Anita rakes great pride in this  place we call home and is known for her hard work  on issues that will benefit every New Mexican.  /1111eJ' Brink - Sandia He(ghts  Cry Wolf!?  Several residents living on San Rafael near  Rock Rose have spotted a wolf while walking. pg- ging and driving in the area. A retired ranger living  nearby identified the animal prowling around back- yards as a full-blooded wolf. Be on the lookout!  (Perhaps they got tired of wailing for their big re- inuoduc:tion into New Mexico.)  . .,  It is usually nocturnal and is often found  moving about on summer evenings after a rain. And  it DOES NOT TOLERAIB HARASSMENT. Although  not deadly, it can pinch vigorously and can spray an  irritating solution of acetic acid (vinegar) accurately  more than a yard away, with enough juice for eight  or more shots. It is not poisonous.  The Narure Center has one in captivity and  though not much is known about the Vmegaroon 's  eating habits in the wild,  in captivity it eats  wood lice, centipedes,  cockroaches and other  kinds of insects.  I took a long look  at this grotesque creature  under the jelly jar and decided  a pardon was in order.  Besides, with their dietary  requirements and knowing  what I had in the house, its  menu and my ability to supply  it were not in sync. So I put my  guest Vinegaroon outside ... far  away from the house.  <1alre Wilccx - Sandia Heights  The Sandia Peak Tuunway will close for a  week November 4th - 8th as maintenance work- er.; replace one of the hauling cables that move the  tram gondolas up and down the mountain.  Then in the spring staning Aplil 1, the tram  is scheduled to close for nearly two months as all  four "crack ropes" from which the cars are suspend- ed are being replaced for the first time since the ser- vice was opened in 1966. Officials have.picked  these times to take advantage of light ridership  between ski season and summer tourist season.  f EBRUARY '97 GRIT  Deadline for articles, advertising,  classifieds, letters to the editor:  JANUARY 15, 1997!  By Patricia Aaron - Home EconomiSI  Cooperative Extension Service/NM State University  After the BIG meal, most of us are faced  with leftovers. Food poisoning can result in han- dling leftovers incorrectly. From the time you take  the lllll<ey out of the oven: you have two hours to  serve it and then refrigerate or freeze the leftovers,  the rurkey, stuffing and gravy. In just two hours  bai::teria that cause food poisoning can multiply on  food left at room temperarure.  Large quantities of food should be divided  into smaller portions and stored in several small or  shallow covered containers. Food in small amounts  will ger cold more quickly. Keep leftover turkey in  the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days onlv. Stuffing and  gravy should be used within 1 to 2 days. Bririg left- over gravy to a rolling boil before serving.  For longer storage, package leftovers in  freezer containers and freeze them. This will prevent  •freezer bum,• those white dried-out patches on the  surface of food that make it tough and tasteless.  Date containers and use the older ones first. Frozen  turkey, stuffing and gravy should be used within  one month. Hope you enjoy the following recipes  for those holiday leftovers.  From all of us here at the Bernalillo County  Cooperative Extension Service, we wish you and  yours a most delicious and food-safe Thanksgiving.  TURKEY & DRESSING CASSEROLE  1 (10-112 oz.) can condensed aeam of  mushroom soup  3/4cupmilk  3 cups cut-up cooked turkey  1-112 cups leftover stuffing  1 lbs. grated Parmesan cheese  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 1-112 qt  baking dish. In a 2~ saucepan over mediwn heat,  combine soup with milk; heat until soup is dis- solved. Stir in lllll<ey. In a greased dish, layer turkey  mixrure and stu/ling twice, ending with lllll<ey mix- rure. Sprinkle with cheese. Bake 20 minutes or  unw heated through. Makes 6 servings.  TURKEY TOKTILLA SOUP  2 lbs. canola oil  4 corn tortillas, cut in 112 in. snips  2 tsp. minced garlic  1 onion, finely diced  1 Jalapeno pepper, seeded, minced  6 cups turkey broth  3 cups diced, cooked turkey  2 tomatoes, chopped  1 lbs. cumin  2 tsp. chili powder  2 lbs. chopped cilantro  Salt tD taste  Grated Cheddar cheese  Tu-d>~ 6<&\>~  In a large skillet, heat oil and  saure tooilla saips until soft.  Add garli:. onion & jalapeno;  cook 3 minutes. Add rurkey  broth, rurkey, tomatoes, aunin, chili powder, cilantro  & salt Simmer 30 minutes. Garnish with cheese and  serve with tonilla chips.  riced less than you think.  Molly Maid offers peace of mind that's priceless  • 600,000 cleanings performed last year  • Written Guarantee of Satisfaction  • Your maids are Insured, Bonded, Uniformed, and Supervised  Call for your FREE no-obligation estimate  ~  232-3430  MOUYMAIDe  INTERNATIONAL SERVtCE SINCE 1979  The Affordable Necessity  YOVR OllLD CAN BE A STAR wml TOP  ACOON U MOVIE HEROES!  CAUCARYN AT 292•41&9  257 Ju1in hbo, N.E.  Alt>UQue1aue, New Mexico 87123  (~J 296-3188  {~)291).5552  Joe Santangelo  OWNER  License No 10020  VISA alld Mnl.Cl\"9' KU Pied  Nancy S. Eckert  Piann Jnstn1ctor  (505) 856·0963  1823 Tr:imw:ayTcrncc Loop N.E. •Alb .. N.M. 87122  ~ -- -- -- II=  -~~-~~!'.~.~ Construction Co. =  :-- I/HI HDtlEI  &  R!IHDELlllG =  Scot Shapiro, CGR  (505) 256-7311  Custom Homes &  Creative Remode~ng  wfii02S1SS  BILL WILLIS  EUROPEAN  AUTOMOTIVE  SPECIALISTS  MERCIDIS BINZ  •  PORSCHE  •  AUDI  •••VICll • •••AIR • PARTS  111 WYOMRO kYD. •  AUUQUmOU1. - l11U llOll 2M-JJJS  John J. Teahan, M.D.  Board Certified Ophthalmologist  (505) 842-1844  ProwdinK Coniprehensiw Mtdicol and Su~cal Eye Care  NEW  MEKICO  EYE CLINIC  Presbyterian Medical Plaza  1100 Lead Avenue, SE  Albuquerque, NM 87106  821-2158  or 856-9057  1.ih 1\b,.  1".o."1:.u~I:!  AtbW<tlKlll-• 1011 ~: i•h .. .vL;  E'OLA .•  111\k."l"-"t'kklll Ubinbutur  GARMENT MAKING & ALTERATIONS  CALL GIGI  505-858-0628  8201 lndtgo NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  NE~LUS~  NO DIETi - NO EXERCISE/  l'ATlNTED FATIUJUlfA INCREDIOIT-'111RACUMINUW. Of Tltf 90S- PWS· UICllflS(Dlll'fUYQ.•UJ llUSCUlissut: a llLUll OTlill N:lllllns  ~i°isA~&~o ~.~~ ;8~WsJ..1 1 :  I~~  ION( MOMTM SUP!IJ o•y 120 •~ I  1-ac».SJl·IOH  Fine Custom Framing & Art  E"LOOA.AOO SOW.RE 19 • 11200MCWTGCIMEA'I' NE:· N..8UOUEAOUE. NM 17111  HNPPY HOLI])A,YS  & HAVE -A G'ilMT j 997!  FALL - 1996  CLASSIFIED ADS  These non-commercial ads are printed at no  charge to members of the SHHA and run for one  issue unless a longer run is re<juested. Send info to  the editor, call 856-1868 or fax 856-1792.  HElP WANTED. Part-time accounting /computer entry.  Call Norma at 85&-6996.  CARPOOL TO SANTA FE. Meets daily at the Grde K  Call Duane I Pat 85&-7443.  VACATIONING! I will care for plants, peiS, yard, newspa- per and mail, etc., while you are gone. Call Amelia  Kohler. Age 14. bpefierced 856-1363.  NEED A SANDIA HEIGHTS BABYSITTER! Call Lesley  l.Jbo at 85&-7909. She is 13 years old Re;ponsi>le, reli- able and resoxcelul.  MOTHER'S HElPER for children 10 rnordls through 4  yeat'- Erin Swinney, 9 years old S 1.00 per hots for each  child. Very responsible. Relerences available. 857-0727.  BABYSITTING for 2 year-Olds & '4'· Catie )olTis, 12 years  old, 7th grader. Received Babysitting Certification from  Campfire Girls and is certified in Child & Infant CPR.  S 1.50 per hots for 1 child. Reliable and loo of fu1 for  children. 856-0963.  KATHRYN SHAW, babysitter, pe1 sitter and O!her odd  jobs. Age 16. Call 857-9236.  Boo~ D~namics -~  Tberapc><tic Mas.sage  7011 Mm1r!.~:m1e r,:tJ sltic\ NE SMite 0  Yowr First Visit Onfa S1s.oo  {A $40.00 valwe)  Ci~ Certificates AtJtlilab/e  Linaa c;banoler  (505) 889-3736  LM.T. #1431  Mobi(e #.2.5!)-!7U  Nationalt Ctrti ice) in ·d,cra JeMtic Ma~'a.  & Bot\911'0rk  MORE ENERGY  IMPROVED HEALTH &  #101560  A BETTER IMMUNE SYSTEM  Ne you tired of being tired? Sick of getting 5ick7  If you are ~for OPTIMUM HEALTli,  both phy5ically and mentally,  cau Brenda at 856-0915 for ntormation  about the world's most nutrient rich superfood.  http://www.healthsolutionconVS8GA/  HOUSE-SITTING  Reliable/Honest/ Non Smoker/Non Drinker  House & Pets - $15/day or $300/mo.  &=lte.t~  Steve@ 823-2244  ;;i  "'  "i:::i  .........  ~  '.::"t  ~VJ=  if  [ § ~ i~ 1 · 1  §'.  s· iH; e~ t:d. • .  ~·  ~ ~ JJ >  ·~  ioos·@~~ln.:  ~N '"ti.~ ..  •  ~wf~5-I.  ~ I  "'"'! ;::s  ::r:  E; °' s·a~  ~'-I~~ c;t  '"<5\0~sta.  ~""'I v, <>. ~  ~  r::t("t;:)  .......  g';;!! nc  !R  .  g.~  ig'  -[  g·  VI [  ~  [  ~:  a.  II)  cu  5.  ~  3  S'  VI  :c $  2:: ~?;  g" 00 5  -g 5!! Pl>  .a~~  ~ f *"  ~ "' ~  ~~!f  B~  t-.>>"OV>  "'r- 0 >  C7\ "'V> z  .!.. c~ c  ~.oo:;::  N ~ ~ :::C  -n '° n m  ~.OmC)  "'cc:= :r  -c,mo-1  er z x "'  ~3:::5:r  "'co 0 °  0  ..... "'3:  --m  VI  0  f"  :E  0  z  o  m  "'  ""  - V>  >c  r- .  ~  V> z  ..., °' Vl  ;a C ~ CD  ~~9~  -I rn  '.""1 7'  z "')> ;<>  o.Oci:!<  ~~~m  "  - )>  Vl z - 3:: 0  ,~Inside .. ~  Covenan~nits  1  Roundhouse Report  2  Ne!ghborfest Honors  3  County Report  4  Wildlife Rescue .  5  Sandia Happenings  6  Bighorn Sheep Update  7  Recycling  9  Security Report .  9  Resident Profile  ,.  10  Sandia Wildlife  11  Sheep To Shawl  12  N\aster Gardening  13  ~~tof the Sea;F ,,, ·· . n ••..  Open Space Proposal , 14  Double Eagle Jobs  15  BioPark Docents  16  Pueblo Update  ' 16  Letters to Editor  18  Turkey Recipes  18  On November 5th, the polls  open from 7AM to 7PM. lfyou're reg·  istered in Precincts 539 or 569, vote  at Fire Station 115 on Paseo de/ Notte.  Precincts 537 or 560 wte at Church  of the Good Shepherd on Tennyson  NE. Don't know your precinct num- ber? Check your registration slip or  ml/ the County Clerli at 768-4085.  THE_Qdii~.  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  FALL -1996  Many Important Issues Affect Sandia Heights - VOTE November 5th!  by Charlotte Zero( - SHHA  This Issue of the GRIT, so close  to the General Election, has some  important election news. Your votes will  have a major impact on many of the  projectS affecting Sandia Hq:hts. State  Senator Tum Wray has provtded in for·  matlon on the Proposed State  Constitutional Amendments that  wlll appear on the Ballot, so please  check out the Roundhouse Repcit on  page 2. Bernalillo County Comrrussioner  Baibara Seward has written a report ort  the important County Bond Jssues on  page 4. Below you will find information  on where our precincts are located in  Sandia Heights AND where to vote.  This is a particularly complex  ballot. In addition to the candidates  seeking election or retention, all of the  New Mexico House and Senate Seats  are up for election as well as the  District, Appeals and Supreme Court  Judges. There are 7 State Constitutional  Amendments, 4 State Bond Issues and  7 County Bond Issues.  There is also an important  Albuquerque Metropolitan  Arroyo  Flood Control  Authority (AMAFCA) Bond  Issue to provide $20 million  in funds for Improving and  reconstructing its flood con- trol system over the next  four years. There are three  candidates seeking the two  seats up for election there.  ***********  * lfAID OF wora W1IRS *  !  Candidate Forums !  * 111 * ai3lllEI mv 14 *  * County Clerk Candidates *  * District Attorney Can<fidates *  * County Treasurer Candidates · *  *  will air in succesOOn  *  *  frlday, November 1st *  *  B:OOPM  *  ***********  Juvenile Correction Center and consauc- tion of a new racility for violent juvenile  offenders. Legal text and pr05I cons to  the State Bond !ssues are available in  The League of Women VotersJree  Voter's Guide for Bernalillo County.  You'll find it at the libraries, Smiths,  Furr's, WalMan: or Circle K. For more  information call LWV at 884-8441.  :.;;;:;; .-...~  The State Bond Issues  _ .. _ -·-r -·· ~ - , - ,..,., ,..  range from A to o. State  take~ · aak and W ypyr µ,me. Other  Bond !ssue A, if passed, will fund senior  early ot"p i bobth); jl~ " place at  citizen facility construction, improve4  Coro  ,tl~ h ~·1-ig~cfje;i ~Menaul &  ments and equipment. State Bond Issue  Lou lana, he Atn . - cond and  B addresses. capital improvements flJf~O,S~~~i B v9' Pl't,  Rio Bravo  educaaonal msnruaons throughout the  a'n  - state. Bond Issue C would provide fund~  lnl;l for upgrading the NM State  Fairgrounds facilities. Bond Issue 0  would provide funds for upgrading the  