In August 2024, the SHHA held a meeting with committee presentations. President Jin Stewart highlighted the impressive work of the Covenant Support Committee (CSC) and the Community Service and Membership Committee, urging residents to participate in community efforts. Committee member Judy Chreist's fidelity to SHHA was recognized. Kathleen McCaughey, Chair of the Environmental & Safety Committee, voiced concerns over potential hazards of e bikes and micromobility devices. The SHHA is also preparing for the 21st Sandia Heights Artists Tour started by artist friends Lynda Burch and Ralph Rudolph. It became a prominent event with financial supporters and charity sponsorship, now features 43 artists yearly. A real estate transaction highlighted a strong market trend with a house at 2027 Quail Run CT NE being sold successfully. The historical significance of the nearby Jaral Pueblito was noted, with excavations revealing its long lasting presence and importance during the Pueblo Revolt of 1680. The thriving community has a "Cork & Fork" Dining Activity, annual shredding event, approved community projects log, among other initiatives. A special feature story covers residents Kristin Ackerson and Dave Wilson who are very active in community life. Their son, David, has been enjoying scouting activities and is advancing to become an Eagle Scout. Despite the thriving local scene, the text didn't clarify the specifics of some topics related to homeowners in Sandia Heights. * Key Points: * Encouragement for resident participation in committees. * Concerns over traffic changes for e bikes and micromobility devices. * The renowned annual Sandia Heights Artists Tour featuring more than 40 artists and its history. * Strong real estate market trend in Sandia Heights. * Historical importance of Jaral Pueblito. * Thriving community activities in Sandia Heights. * The contribution of Scouting activities to the development of young residents. * Some topics related to homeowners not clarified.