THE  Volume90  November 1990  County Planning Commission Defers  Primrose Pointe Decision  Applications for master plan and site  plan approval for Primrose Pointe, a  proposed 148-acre planned residential  community on the west side of Tramway  Blvd., were "indefinitely deferred" by the  County Planning Commission at an Oc- tober 3 hearing.  Among the reasons for deferral cited  by the Commission were the following:  -Major drainage facilities, as designed,  were not acceptable.  -No parks were provided in the devel- opment.  -Approval had not been acquired from  the Board of County Commissioners on  alignment of water and sewer lines.  -The proposal placed an unreasonable  financial  responsibility  on  the  Homeowner's Association for mainte- nance of open space.  While the Primrose Pointe developer,  S&S Associates, did not request any zone  change from the present A-1 classifica- tion (maximum density of 1 dwelling unit  per acre), they did file a request for a  Special Use Permit which would allow  the development of a Planned Develop- ment Area (maximum density of 3 dwell- ing units per acre). The County Planning  Commission also deferred the Special  Use Permit request until a decision has  been made on the Master Plan.  agenda just as soon as he gets the go  ahead from Susan Connors, Senior Plan- ner with the Bernalillo County Planning  Department, and as soon as he has ful- filled the requirements regarding public  notification of the hearings.  "I contacted both the Sandia Heights  and North Albuquerque Acres Home- owners Associations back in February to  get their input on Primrose Pointe before  we even started to develop the Master  Plan," Spirock said. "From the outset we  have tried to be receptive to the wishes  and concerns of the surrounding neigh- borhoods. If the neighborhoods will  come to us with some clear cut requests  and proposals, we will do our best to  respond in a positive way."  Spirock points out that the street lights  that were proposed in the original Master  Plan have now been eliminated, some 1. 7  acres of private park land have now been  officially designated, more open space  has been created where the La Cueva  Arroyo meets Lowell St., and a commit- ment has been made to establish an  Architectural Control Committee and  covenants that call for architectural styles  compatible with the existing neighbor- ·  hoods. All of these changes, Spirock  emphasizes, address concerns expressed  by the residents of Sandia Heights and  North Albuquerque Acres.  Primary challenger of the proposed  PrimrosePointeMaster Planis the North  Albuquerque Sandia Heights Coalition  (NASHC), which is comprised of con- cerned residents from the North Al- buquerque Acres and Sandia Heights  communities. A NASHC fund raising  ·drive obtained sufficient monies to retain  the services of Herb Denish & Associ- ates, a real estate consulting firm.  Number4  Sandia Heights Initiates  Recycling Saturdays  "While everyone seems to be in agree- ment about the need to recycle, the costs  of recycling, and more importantly, the  costs for not recycling are not fully appre- ciated," says Bill Heflin, Director of the  Sandia Heights Homeowners Associa- tion Recycling Program.  "The SHHA Recycling Committee  finds the community's options somewhat  limited," Bill says, "and that will probably  remain true until the economics involved  in recycling become better understood  and more generally known."  Bill reports that the Albuquerque City  Council is presently awaiting a compre- hensive report on recycling based upon  the curb-side pickup pilot project rhat  ended in June, 1990. The report, which  was due out by the end of October, wJl  outline the options and costs involved in  ·  Continued oiz page 2  .----------------------------.  In this issue .. .  Advertising Rates .... ...... ........ ...... .... 4  Birds .................................................. 11  Bridge Club ...................................... 15  Bulletin Board ................ ........ .......... 3  Construction...................................... 9  CVFD #5 .......................................... 4  Grit Circulation .............. .................. 4  Grit Deadline .................................... 4  Gritty Letters .................................... 7  Holiday Bazaar ................................ 16  Holiday Lights Contest .................... 2  Neighborhood Coffees .................... 14  Non-Commercial Ads ...................... 15  Primrose _Pointe ................................ 1  Recycling ............................... ..... .. ... . 1  SHHA Board Meetings .................. 2  SHHA Board of Directors .............. 12  Swim Team ........................................ 9  View from Jack Rabbit Hill ............ 11  Wildflower Group ............................ 11  Cliff Spirock of Community Sciences  Corporation, who is representing S&S ·  Associates throughout the planning and  review process, already has submitted a  revised Master Plan addressing the de- ferral points cited by the Commission.  Spirock indicated that he plans to get the  application for approval of the revised  Master Plan on the Commission's  Continued on page 7 ---------------------- ---------------------------------------·- ···-- ---- Page2  THE ~ ==  .:  The GRIT is the official  newsletter of the  SANDIA HEIGHTS  HOMEOWNERS  ASSOCIATION, INC.  P.O. Box 20021  Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021  EDITOR:  Sherry Lombana  14201 Encantado NE  Albuquerque, NM 87123  275-9112  PUBLISHER:  MICRODATA inc.  c/o Harry Criel  326 Paintbrush Dr. NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  247-4011  Sandia Heights  Homeowners  Association  Board of Directors  Meetings  2nd Wednesday  of  Each Month  7:30 p.m.  Paseo del Norte  Fire Station  Everyone Welcome!  Recycling  Continued from page 1  recycling ranging from curb-side pickup  to a central depository. The SHHA  Recycling Committee has high hopes that  the Albuquerque City Council will make  a decision based on the results that will  lead the way to new initiatives in Sandia  Heights.  Sandia Heights Recycling  "Meanwhile we must take advantage of  current opportunities to recycle!" Bill  says.  The Recycling Committee has  selected the fourth Saturday of each  month for a neighborhood recycling day.  Sandia Heights' residents should bring  aluminum, glass containers, newspapers,  and cardboard to the parking lot of the  Quail Run Shopping Center, corner of  San Rafael and Tramway Blvd., between  9:00 a.m. and 12 noon.  A City truck will pick up the recyclable  materials and remit any funds from their  recycling to the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association. Funds from  the SHHA Recycling Program will be set  aside for use on a special project to benefit  the Sandia Heights community. If you  have an idea or opinion about what that  community project should be, contact the  SHHA office at 275-9112. Your ideas/  opinions will be compiled into a report for  presentation to the Recycling Committee  and, subsequently, the SHHA Board of  Directors.  Other Opportunities  Garden clippings and much kitchen  ·~  waste can be recycled through - composting. If you would like more  information on composting and building  compost bins, give Bill Heflin a call at  291-0489.  Reynolds Trailers throughout the City  accept aluminum cans, foil, and trays.  The trailer closest to Sandia Heights is  located in the supermarket parking lot at  the intersection of Juan Tabo and  Candelaria.  Reynolds pays for the aluminum, but  they also accept glass containers  (separated by color) for collection by the  City.  US Recycling at 2330 2nd St. SW  (south of Stadium) is accepting  household lots of plastics for recycling.  As yet, they are not prepared to accept  truckloads of plastics.  Many of the local quick lube\oil  change operations accept used motor oil  for recycling. Put the oil into tight plastic  milk or soft drink containers for  transport. Hazardous household waste- such as paint, caustic cleaners, or acids - are accepted three times per year at 6133  Edith NE. The last time these materials  were accepted was late September, with  the next collection to be scheduled in  February or March, 1991. Call Milo  Myers at the Environmental Health  Department (768-2600) for the next  collection date.  Catch The Holiday Spirit  The Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association will once again sponsor the  annual Holiday Lights Contest. Prizes  will be awarded in two categories -- traditional decorations and luminaria  displays. Judging by an impartial panel  will be conducted on December 24  between 7 p.m. and 10 p.m.  All SHHA members who wish to  participate must fill out the entry form  included in this issue of The GRIT (see  page 3) and mail it by December 7 to  Rainer Schelp, SHHA Director of Parks  and Recreation.  First, second, and  honorable mention winners will be  named in each category, with first and  second place winners receiving cash  awards. All winners will be highlighted  in the February, 1991issue of The GRIT.  In the tradition of the Land of  Enchantment and in keeping with the  holiday spirit, let's all get involved and  make Sandia Heights the bright star at  the base of the mountain.  Good luck to all contestants!  Page3  -- ----- -- -- ----- = ~~ =~  =  = ~~=  ::-:. ~ ~~ - BOARD  •  A newly-formed SHHA Parks and Recreation Committee is looking for interested members. The Committee's  goals are to improve Sandia Heights Park, as well as the hiking, jogging, and biking trails in our area. Committee  members recently repaired the swings at Sandia Heights Park and are now checking into providing more play  equipment for younger children. Efforts also are being made in conjunction with the Sandia Heights Guard Patrol  to tighten security at the park thereby cutting down on vandalism, use of the area for nighttime "parking", and  associated problems. Persons interested in getting involved in this active and enthusiastic committee should contact  Rainer Schelp, 291-0504.  •  There will be no refuse collection on Thursday, November 22; Tuesday, December 25; or Tuesday, January 1. In  each case, refuse will be collected the following day.  •  Sandia Heights residents are urged to take advantage of a special pickup for Christmas trees during the week of  January 7-11, 1991. Place your tree out on the day of your normal refuse collection, and it will be picked up at no  extra charge.  - •  The dates for SHHA's Recycling Saturdays (see story on page 1) over the next three months are November 24 and  December 29,1990 and January26, 1991. Bring your aluminum, glass containers, newspapers, and cardboard to  the parking lot of the Quail Run Center, corner of San Rafael and Tramway Blvd, between 9:00 a.m. and 12 noon.  •  The Sandia Heights Stitchery Group meets the second and fourth Mondays of each month from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.  You're invited to bring your quilting, embroidery, knitting, mending, or craft and join us for socializing and sewing.  Bring a bite of lunch, and your hostess will furnish beverage and dessert Call Lucy Russell (294-3583) for  information about the next meeting.  r----------------------------------------,  ENTRY FORM  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  HOLIDAY LIGHTS CONTEST  (ENTRY DEADLINE: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1990)  PHONE NUMBER:~~~~~- CATEGORY:  New Mexico Luminaria D  Traditional Decorations D  Judging will be from 7-10 PM on Monday, December 24.*  *In the event of bad weather, judging will be from 7-10 PM on Wednesday, December 26.  RULES:  1. You must be a member of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association.  2. Each address can enter only one category.  3. 1st, 2nd, and Honorable Mention winners will be named in each category.  MAIL TO:  Rainer Schelp  6103 Bluebird Ln. NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  L----------------------------------------~  Page4  11THE GRIT 11  ADVERTISING RATES  Non-commercial ads (baby sitting, house sitting, etc.) FREE  to members of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association.  Business card size - $35 per three (3) issues  Commercial ads- minimum of $35per1/4 page  ($65 per half-page, $125 per full-page)  ALL ADS MUST BE CAMERA-READY AND CORRECTLY SIZED*  PAYMENT MUST ACCOMPAJ\'Y ALL COMMERCIAL ADS  •Advertising Artwork and Layout Service Available - Call 247-4011  Celebrate  The Uniqueness of Sandia Heights!  T-Shirt design by award-winning artist  Linda Tratechaud. Printed in teal (blue/green),  "Sandia Sunset" melon (rose/orange),  and black on a white Hanes T-Shirt.  Children's Sizes: S(6-8), M(10-12)  $5 Members; $7 Nonmembers  Adult Sizes: S,M,L,XL  $7 Members; $9 Nonmembers  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  275-9112  Deadline for the  February  11Grit 11  The deadline for submitting ads or  information for the February issue of  "The Grit" is Tuesday, January 15, 1991.  Please submit all materials to Sherry  Lombana, 14201 Endantado NE.,  Albuquerque, NM 87123, 275-9112.  11Grit 11 Circulation  This issue of The Grit was mailed to  1085 members of the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association.  From The  Desk  Of Chief 5  In the lull between State Fair, Interna- tional Balloon, and Halloween and the  --~- start of the frantic holiday pace is a good  time to check out your residence for  potential fire hazards.  Change the battery in your smoke  detector, and make sure it's working ·  properly. Check around your home in  storage areas, garages, closets, or any  other places where things may be stored  that could start a fire.  How about that chimney? Has it been  cleaned out since last winter?  Don't take chances! Have a safe and  happy holiday season.  - Clark "Sparkie" Speakman  Fire Chief, CVFD District #5  The SHHA Board of Directors  wishes you  a  Happy  Thanksgiving  STATE FARM  INSURANCE  ®  STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES  HOME OFFICES  BLOOMINGTON, ILLINOIS  John N. Gabaldon  Agent  12700 San Rafael N.E., Suite 6-C  North of Academy on Tramway  Albuquerque, New Mexico 87122  Bus. (505) 293-9300  Res. (505) 275-2636  FIREWOOD - PINON - CEDAR  Sening Sandia Heights  for 10 Years  Delivered and Stacked  Doug Fischer  293-1949  9101 Lynx Loop NE  Picture It Framed  (FORMERLY FOLGER'S FRAME-IT)  JOHN & EVY WOODS  ELDORADO SQUARE #9  1 1 200 MONTGOMERY NE  LOUISIANA PLAZA 8-8  7200 MONTGOMERY NE  ALBUQUERQUE, NM 871 I I  ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87109  (505) 298-6697  (505) 883-8966  BILL YE GAMSBY  Realtor  The Vaughan Company  Realtors  1804 JUAN TABO BLVD., N.E.  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87112  BUS. (505) 296-4841  RES. (505) 298-2189  V. PAGER 768-8208  The World Book Encyclopedia  Childcraft--The How and Why Library  Early World of Learning TM  Dyne Macha, Ph.D.  World Book Representative  Sandia Heights Resident  Page5  Ph. 298-6583  .. Your Plans or mine? ..  MAGNUM HOMES  Lie. 16428  New Homes. Additions.  Remodel. RePair.  Garaies. Hot Tubs & More  Flat Bid or Cost Plus  DAUE WERNICKE. Owner  Ann MJ.rie Cale  - - - Certified Public Accountant  Income Tax Planning  Income Tax Retums  Business Consulting  Bookkeeping  Financial Statements  293-1949  9101 Lynx Loop .\"E  Albuquerque . .\":vt 87122  GUITAR INSTRUCTION  Specializing in Beginners & Intermediates  - 15 Years Experience - BOB KORMAN  1924 Quail Run Dr. NE  Sandia Heights  Call  292-3666  Page6  ...... J--cWJShine  ~~.  (505) 296-3188  ( 505) 296-5552  J-ZiUU1}g1  Jnc.  Joe Santangelo  257 Juan Tabo, N.E.  License No. 10020  Albuquerque, New Mexico g- ! 23  \IS<>. 'nd MasterCharge accepted  FRAN COGEN  ASSOCIATE BROKER  HOME 298-8990  A specialized program  of music enjoyment for pre- school children!  Call Nancy  Johns, 299-0963, for more  information! !  II  ROB SCOTT  BULLSEYE GOLF CENTER  5516 Menaul N.E.  Albuquerque, N.M. 87110  (505J 884-3454  . '  SHIRLEY GERBER  Educational Consultant  (505) 275-7765  910 Tramway Lane NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  Developmental Toys, Books & Games For All Ages  Home Demonstrations. Fundraisers, Catalog/Phone Orders  New Book of Knowledge Encyclopedia  Part & Full Time Career Opportunities Visa/MC Accepted  (505) 299-0963  Nancy Eckert Johns  Music Instructor - Piano Specialist  ilSa  1823 Tramway Terrace Loop NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  II II I  LYNN SHAW, R.N.  •  Bacteriostatic Water Systems  Residential & light Commercial units  "Water the way it used to be"  1161 Laurel Loop N.E.  Albuquerque, N.M. 87122  505-294-4741  Independent Distributor  GRACE LUTHERAN CHURCH  " ... you will find me, when you seek me with  your whole heart." ( Jer. 29: 13)  Sunday Worship:  9:30  Sunday School:  10:45  (Nursery Available)  On Eubank  Just South of Paseo del Norte  (823-9100)  Gritty  Letters  THE GRIT welcomes brief, original letters concerning current topics of interest to Sandia Heights'  residents. Letters must include full name and signature of the author, address, and telephone number  (though these can be omitted from the printed copy, if requested). The Editor reserves the right to edit or  condense any letter. Send letters to: THE GRIT, 14201 Encantado Rd. NE, Albuquerque, NM 87123.  Everyone likes a sense of security, and  many of us in Sandia Heights have an  alarm system in our home. Properly used,  these alarm systems can provide protec- tion against burglary and fire and may  support medical emergency communica- tion.  Unfortunately, security systems also  can create niajor neighborhood ill-will  due to alarm system abµse. Irresponsible  neighbors frequently allow their alarm  system to go off for extended periods  during all parts of the day and the middle  of the night. Children are awakened and  people go without sleep because some  people are not responsible with their  systems. In essence, these people are  disturbing the peace and creating a  nuisance, both of which  are against  County ordinance and the covenants for  Sandia Heights.  In addition, when  someone's security system continually  sounds false alarms, neighbors soon  become apathetic and thus may not  respond to an actual burglary or crisis.  I would like to offer the following  recommendations to homeowners to  help insure neighborhood tranquility and  to avoid alarm system abuse:  - Be sure you are aware of the proper  use of your alarm system by thoroughly  reading the owner's manual. If possible,  the system should be programmed to  reset after a specified period of time. This  will stop the alarm from going off for  extended periods.  - Ensure that your alarm system is in  proper working order.  - Make provisions to deal with the  alarm while you are away from your  residence. Subscribe to the Sandia  Heights Guard Patrol, and make sure  they have access to your system and the  proper code to turn off the alarm. Reach  an agreement with one of your neighbors  on what to do if the alarm goes off.  Consider having your system  monitored by a professional monitoring  service. Even if your system was not  installed by a company that provides  monitoring services, you may be able to  obtain this service if you find a company  whose equipment is compatible with your  alarm system.  I believe residents who continuously  abuse their alarm systems should be  reported to the County Sheriff and be  subject to the appropriate fines for  disurbing the peace and creating a  nuisance. In addition, I think that either  the Sandia Heights Guard Patrol or the  Homeowners Association should  consider initiating an ongoing campaign  to register all security systems in Sandia  Heights. This would be similar to the  compulsory security system registration  in the City of Albuquerque whereby  homeowners are required to have on file  the name, address, and phone number of  a responsible party who can be contacted  to shut off the alarm, if necessary.  While alarm systems provide us an  increased level of security, conscientious  homeowners must also be aware of their  neighbors' rights and feelings. Remem- ber, most of us chose to live in Sandia  Heights to enjoy the quiet and peaceful  setting.  Rainer and Cathy Schelp  6103 Bluebird Lane  Primrose Pointe  Continued from page I  Page 7  "Denish & Associates has alerted the  Coalition to areas of the proposed Prim - rose Pointe Master Plan that might have  an adverse affect on our communities,"  said Bob Williams, a member of the  SHHA Board of Directors who has  joined the NASHC.  NASHC members also obtained some  500 signatures on a petition stating the  Coalition's main concerns with the Prim- rose Pointe Master Plan which will be  presented to the County Planning Com- m1ss1on.  Housing Density  "Even though a number of changes  have been made to address the require- ments of the County Planning Commis- sion and concerns of the Coalition,"  Williams said, "many of the NASHC's  objections center around the proposed  dwelling units per acre (DU/ AC) in this  development. And that's an issue that has  not been satisfactorily · addressed by  Community Sciences Corporation or  S&S Associates."  In accordance with the provisions of  the Comprehensive Plan, a Subarea  Master Plan, and a County Design Over- lay Zone, 14 acres of the proposed devel- opment are limited to 1 DU/AC (14  maximum allowable) and 134 acres arc  limited to 3 DU/AC (402 maximum al- lowable).  This brings the maximum  number of allowable dwelling units on  the 148 acres to a total of 416. S&S  Associates has submitted a proposed Site  Development Plan for 416 lots.  "By requesting the maximum number  of dwelling units allowable on this acre- age, S&S Associates has greatly in- creased the likelihood for drainage and  traffic problems and over crowding of our  area's schools," Williams said. "Quite  some time back, Denish & Associates  submitted to Community Sciences Cor- poration a proposed alternative Master  Plan with fewer overall dwelling units per  acre. We have yet to receive any kind of  response on this proposal," Williams  said.  Continued on page 8  Page8  Primrose Pointe  Continued from page 7  "It was really the Clifford Company  that opened the door for this develop- ment,'' said Cleve Matthews, Land Op- erations Manager for the Sandia Peak  Tram Co., "by assembling this 148 acres  of contiguous land. After the company  was forced to sell off some of its land  holdings, it was just a matter of time  before another developer stepped in. At  one point the Sandia Peak Tram Co.  seriously considered developing this site  itself."  Matthews said that Sandia Heights  residents should consider the fact that the  proposed density of Primrose Pointe is  less than many already developed areas  of Sandia Heights. As examples, Mat- thews cited the Brushwood Subdivisions  with 5.5 DU/ AC and some subdivisions  in Unit 7 with 7 DU/AC.  City Annexation  "The high density proposed by S&S  Associates also requires the running of  City water and sewer lines to Primrose  Pointe," Williams said. "Even though the  developer plans to run lines at his own  expense, we feel this greatly increases the  probability for City annexation not only  for Primrose Pointe but also for some  areas of Sandia Heights and North Al- buquerque Acres. If Primrose Pointe is  annexed, that would make some areas of  Sandia Heights and North Albuquerque  Acres adjacent to City land."  UsersofCitywater and/or sewer serv- ice who reside outside the City of Al- buquerque pay an additional surcharge,  which make water and sewer charges  more expensive in these areas. However,  the general consensus is that higher City  taxes more than compensate for any  savings in water and sewer costs that  residents would realize by being annexed.  In addition, residents would be expected  to pay the necessary assessments to bring  roads up to the current City standards  and codes. The net result would be an  inevitable and sizeable increase in the  cost of living as a result of City annexa- tion.  In accordance with the Declaration of  Restrictions (covenants), the Sandia  Heights subdivisions along Tramway  Blvd. that are on a sewer system can be  annexed at the City's option "as soon as  the subdivision meets the City's statutory  annexation requirements." This was a  City requirement in order to provide  sewer service to these areas.  "Personally, I don't see how bringing  City water and sewer to Primrose Pointe  will hasten City annexation in Sandia  Heights or North Albuquerque Acres,"  Matthews said. "One of the require- ments for annexation is that the area is  contiguous to City land, and none of these  neighborhoods, including Primrose  Pointe, would fit that requirement."  Cliff Spirock said he has, in fact, dis- cussed the guidelines and requirements  for City annexation of Primrose Pointe  with City Planner Rex King as part of his  commitment to S&S Associates to pur- sue all avenues and possibilities.  Runoff and Roads  While there seems to be some differ- ences of opinion regarding acceptable  housing densities and increased pros- pects for annexation, everyone appears  to be in agreement on the importance of  developing an adequate drainage plan  and the likelihood for increased traffic  problems caused by Primrose Pointe.  "Hydrology experts tell us that the  Primrose Pointe community will cause a  30 fold increase in downstream storm  runoff, a factor that can not be ignored or  minimized," Williams said.  In response to concerns raised by the  Albuquerque Metropolitan Area Flood  Control Authority (AMAFCA), Com- munity Sciences Corporation has sub- mitted a revised drainage plan for Prim- rose Pointe. "Major drainage facilities  will be designed in accordance with  AMAFCA and County hydrologist's  standards," Spirock said. "We also pro- pose that all major drainage facilities will  be maintained by AMAFCA, just as they  are in Sandia Heights. Only minor drain- age facilities, such as street swales, deten- tion ponds, and related open space areas,  would be maintained by the Primrose  Pointe Homeowners Association."  "In addition, the development of Prim- rose Pointe with the maximum allowable  dwelling units per acre will have a devas- tating affect on our already congested  streets," Williams said. The City Public  Works Department estimates that the  average weekday travel to and from  Primrose Pointe would increase traffic by  173 percent; morning peak hour vehicle  trips would increase 163 percent; and  afternoon peak hour vehicle trips would  increase 173 percent.  "Design and construction of County  roads simply has not kept pace with de- velopment,'' Williams said. "S&S devel- opment could do everything by the book  to build the roads within Primrose  Pointe, but nothing will change the fact  that the main arterial streets in our area  are inadequate for current levels of traf- fic. Even though some road construction  projects are already underway, relief for  our area's current traffic problems is a  number of years away."  Be Informed/Get Involved  Bill Stabler, President of the Sandia  Heights Homeowners Association, urges  interested and concerned SHHA mem- bers to take the time to become informed  on all aspects of the proposed Primrose  Pointe community.  "Limited space in "The Grit" prevents  us from printing all available informa- tion,'' Bill said. "Whether you're pro,  con, or undecided on the Primrose Pointe  community, the best interests of the  Sandia Heights community and sur- rounding neighborhoods are served  when residents are informed and aware."  For more information on Primrose  Pointe, you may contact Cliff Spirock at  Community Sciences Corporation (897- 0000) or representatives of the North  Albuquerque Sandia Heights Coalition,  Bob Williams (292-4949), Susan  Noftsker (299-9644), or Tom Kennedy  (293-2904).  •  1990 Swim Season  Is A Hot Success  Congratulations to Coach Guy Seiler  and the 53Sandia Heights swimmers who  competed during the 1990 swim season!  Eighteen of the 53 swimmers compet- ing in preliminaries on July 28 and J uly29  at the Coronado Club qualified for the  finals held on July 30.  The Sandia Heights Swim Team  scored 157 points in the Championship  Finals and placed 9th out of the 15 teams  in the Sundance Aquatic Association.  A special thanks goes out to alUhe  parents for their help at the individual  dual meets as well as at the Champion- ship Meet. Three individuals deserve  special recognition for their time, dedica- tion and service throughout the summer  -- Jan Randall for her service on the  SundanceAquaticAssociation Executive  Committee; Kay Jarrell for serving as the  Parent Representative to the Sundance  Aquatic Association; Susan Riesmeyer  for receiving the Outstanding Parent  Volunteer Award.  Dedication, determination, sports- manship, and team spirit are bywords of  the Sandia Heights Team, and we're  proud of every swimmer!  We hope to see all swimmers back for  the 1991 season along with some new  faces.  Fallowing is a list of individual qualifi- ers on the team by age group:  8 Years & Under  Christie McAdams-4th alternate/25  yd. backstroke; Louis Guillory-2nd alter- nate/SO yd. freestyle; John Smuda-3rd  alternate/SO yd. freestyle; Phillip Guil- lory-4th alternate/25 yd. butterfly.  9-10 Years  Emily Cooper-3rd/25 yd. freestyle,  3rd/SO yd. freestyle, 4th/25 yd. butterfly;  Sarah Riesmeyer-lst/25 yd. freestyle,  6th/100yd. individual medley, 2nd/ 50yd.  freestyle; Ben Jarrell-5th/25 yd. frees- tyle, 2nd alternate in 100 yd. individual  medley, 1st alternate/SO yd. freestyle;  Jimmy Smuda-3rd alternate/25 yd. back- stroke, 2nd alternate/25 yd. butterfly;  Jimmy Butler-3rd alternate/25 yd.  breaststroke.  11-12 Years  Shanna McGee-8th/50 yd. freestyle,  5th/ 50 yd. breaststroke; Ashley Krueger- 3rd/ 50 yd. backstroke; Chris Jarrell-5th/  50 yd. freestyle, 4th/100 yd. individual  medley, lst/50 yd. breaststroke.  13-14 Years  Melissa Jarrell-4th/SO yd. freestyle,  2nd alternate/SO yd. backstroke, 2nd al- ternate/SO yd. butterfly; Megan Ries- meyer-3rd/50 yd. freestyle, 6th/100 yd.  freestyle; Jenny Fisher-3rd alternate/SO  yd. breaststroke.  15-18 Years  Marcy Cooper-8th/SO yd. freestyle,  7th/100 yd. freestyle, 8th/SO yd. butter- fly; Nathaniel Williams-3rd/SO yd. back- stroke, 6th/100 yd. individual medley,  2nd alternate/100 yd. freestyle; Colin  Humphries, 4th/50 yd. butterfly.  Following is a list of results for the  Sandia Heights Swim Team relays:  Medley Relay  8 & Under Girls -- 10th place  8 & Under Boys -- 7th place  9-10 Girls -- 4th place  9-10 Boys -- 7th place  11-12 Boys -- 7th place  13-14 Girls -- 7th place  Freestyle Relay  8 & Under Girls -- 12th place  8 & Under Boys -- 5th place  9-10 Girls -- 3rd place  9-10 Boys -- 4th place  11-12 boys -- 11th place  13-14 Girls -- 9th place  13-14 Boys -- 10th place  Page9  Construction  Booms In  Sandia Heights  The SHHA Architectural Review  Committee has been extremely busy  during the past few months keeping up  with submittals for new construction and  renovations.  Plans have been approved for new  home construction at the following ad- dresses, and construction at these loca- tions has already started or will begin in  the near future:  9108 Lynx Loop  Homes By Carmen  823-6693  176 Big Horn Ridge  George Bolling, General Contractor  299-0155  2819 Tramway Circle  Eagle Crest Construction  888-0234  1422 San Rafael  Sundown Enterprise5  294-8098  1424 San Rafael  Parkwest Construction  292-9758  1710 Quail Run Court  Pallas Builders  293-6375  54 Rock Point Place  Stright Construction Co.  898-1760  434 Live Oak Loop  Mechenbier Construction  828-1676  If you have questions or concerns  about construction going on in your  neighborhood, you may contact the con- tractor at the phone number listed or the  SHHA office at 275-9112.  Page 10  DREAMHOME ...  Tuu already own it!  Design • Planning • Construction  Design-to-Finish . . .  for any budget!  Call today!  883-4040  Preliminary  design  consultation  Today's wise homeowner steps up IO the home of  and estimate  their dreams by REMODELING. Save closing costs,  ... is FREE'  realtor's fees . . . the high cost of IDCWing! Add value  IO )Ullr home and have exactly what yoor 13mily wanls and needs.  Add a room or a deck ... build a state of the art kitchen or luxurious bath.  Let yoor imagination run wild!  Prince of Peace  Catholic Community  Church  WELCOMES ALL  TO SUNDAY MASS  9:00 a.m., IO: 15 a.m. &  5:30 p.m.  12509 Hollywood N.E.  I Blk. West of Train way 011  Paseo Del Norte  For Information:  292-0539 Pat  Movin' On Year  1989 was a good reminder for us all.  For a few years we had so much rain that  we all had been thinking that we were  living in a near-Mediterranean climate.  Then came 1989, a truly drought· year  with months of high temperatures, hot  winds, even at night, and almost zero  humidity and only about 5 inches of rain.  Surely, this was the kind of year that sent  the Anasazis looking for new homes with  more permanent water supplies and sent  early New Mexico ranchers searching for  new horizons.  We gardeners were frustrated trying to  keep new plants alive: the low humidity  dried the moisture right out of new leaves  ever as we stood there with a watering  can. Ponderosa pines died by the dozens.  Even some of those that had extra water  from concerned friends died of heat  stress; many of those that were friendless  often did not make it through.  Cottonwoods and poplars that had been  happy in the Heights for years suddenly  realized that this year was beyond their  tolerance level and shriveled up. The  grama grass looked dry enough to blow  away, but bless it, it wasn't dead, just  hangin' in there.  But still, we did not lack for blooming  plants if we looked to the natives. In July,  I made a list of plants along our road that  were blooming, even though we'd had no  rain for many weeks:  Clammyweed,  Rocky Mountain bee plant, wild zinnia,  stick leaf, wooly yarrow, gaillardia,  chocolate flower, coneflower, pepper  grass, buffalo gourd, verbena and datura.  Many did not have the lush bloom of  some summers but were still producing  Page 11  THE VIEW FROM TACKRABBIT HILL  flowers in spite of the drought. Last  summer the chocolate flower perhaps  had even more flowers than other years  and without the rains this plant, which  sometimes has a tendency to sprawl,  remained more compact and was  especially welcome.  In the garden, the desert willow didn't  mind the drought and kept on sending out  its lovely pink blooms.  The desert  penstemon pseudospectablis bloomed  all summer. I have to admit that along  about August I felt sympathy for the dry  Feathered  Friends  Favor  Foothills  Sandia Heights'  own resident  ornithologist, Dr. Roger K. Hoppe, has  compiled a bird checklist applicable to  the western side of the Sandia Mountain  foothills.  Roger compiled the data over a four- year period of avid bird watching at his  home on Eagle Ridge Dr. -- the official  habitat being Pinyan-Juniper woodland- upper Sonoran zone (elevation 6,240  feet).  Some 97 different birds are rated  according to abundance (abundant,  common, uncommon, rare) and status  (year around resident, winter resident,  summer resident, transient).  Roger  notes that all of these birds have been  observed from his Sandia Heights  residence.  Members of the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association can obtain a  copy of the checklist free of charge by  contacting the SHHA office at 275-9112.  · If you get the answering machine, please  state you want Roger's Bird Checklist  and leave your name and mailing  address.  side of the garden and give it a good  soaking for which it responded gratefully  by looking fairly decent for the rest of the  summer. If I'd been trying to grow  petunias they would have had a hard time  even if I'd been watering every night and  morning. I think I'll try to learn more  about other plants that know how to  survive here in a year when even the  Anasazi would have been thinking about  moving on to find some long lost cousins  where the grass was taller.  --Jean Heflin  Sandia Heights  Wildflower~  Club  ~~i  The club's September meeting  featured a potluck supper and a tour of  Libby and Bob Bennett's spectacular  garden. Landscape designers Bill Hayes  and Robin Mason led the tour and  answered questions.  Lynn Doxon, PhD, extension urban  horticulture  specialist  for  the  Cooperative Extension Service of New  Mexico State University, will address the  club at their November meeting. The  meeting will be held on Monday, Nov. 12  at 7:30 p.m. in the home of Bev and Gil  Grady, 935 Bobcat Blvd. Call Bev Grady  (275-0798) of Mary Colton (294-5510)  for more information on the meeting or  other club activities. All gardening and  wildflower enthusiasts are welcome.  Support  Your Grit  Advertisers!  Page 12  Diverse Backgrounds And Interests  Create Well-Rounded SHHA Board  Take time to get acs_uainted with your  SHHA Board of Directors. Not only is it  helpful to know whom to call when you  have questions or concerns, but these  neighbors would welcome your interest  and participation in the activities and  responsibilities of the Homeowners As- sociation.  Bill Stabler, President  A retired Regional Engineer with U.S.  Fish and Wildlife, Bill Stabler has spe- cialized in the design of fish hatcheries  and wildlife refuges. A graduate of Pur- due University with a BS in civil engineer- ing, Bill is a registered professional engi- neer and land surveyor. He also is a pilot  in the Coast Guard Auxiliary and District  Membership Chairman for Optimist  Internat\onal.  Residents of Sandia Heights since 1977,  the Stabler family has a history of service  to the community. Bill has been a mem- ber of the SHHA Architectural Review  Committee since its inception in July,  1988 -- a post he resigned to take the  presidency of the Association. Bill's wife,  J ane,just completed a 3-year term on the  Association's Board of Directors, first in  the position of Direct Services Chair and  then as Secretary to the Board.  Janey Brink, Secretary  Janey Brink returned to New Mexico  with the desire to have the mountains  nearby. Sandia Heights provided the  perfect setting.  An avid sports enthusiast, Janey has a  BS in education with a major in physical  education and health and minor in politi- cal science from the University of Texas  at El Paso. Besides working as a teacher  for over ten years, Janey also was the  assistant buyer for the Alpine ski and  water sports departments for a sporting  goods chain with stores in Nevada, Ari- zona, New Mexico, Texas, Utah, and  Arkansas.  Janey and her husband,  Chuck, particularly enjoy traveling the  backroads of New Mexico with friends  and relatives.  Do you have a quality Sandia Heights  lot that you would sell for cash?  We have out-of-state customers for  custom homes and need several lots.  CALL PETE OR HERSHEL - BRUSHWOOD HOMES, INC.  BRUSHWOOD Homes  881-6819  Robert (Bob) Williams,  New Development  Bob Williams retired from Federal  civil service in 1986. His last position was  with the U.S. Air Force Contract Ad- ministration Division where he per- formed surveillance and audit over major  contractors to the USAF in such areas as  traffic management, fleet operations,  expense accounts and logistics.  While Bob's hobbies indude photogra- phy and music appreciation, his special  interest is Schutzen -- the sport of train- ing working dogs in the combined disci- plines of tracking, protection, and obedi- ence.  An Albuquerque resident since 1974  and Sandia Heights homeowner since  November, 1989, Bob has accepted the  newly-created position as the SHHA's  Director of New Development.  Andres Viamonte,  Architectural Review  Andres Viamonte is a principal of  A YID Engineering, Inc., the firm that is  responsible for the final design of the  Tramway Improvement Project from  Paseo del Norte to Tramway Rd. A  graduate of the University of New Mex- ico with BS and MS degrees in civil engi- neering, Andres specializes in blending  environmental concerns and public in- volvement with engineering elements  and public agency requirements. Prior to  joining A YID, he was Vice President of  Bohannan-Huston in charge of the  Transportation Division. In this position,  Andres was responsible for traffic engi- neering, transportation planning, design,  and environmental corridor projects and  studies.  Andres and his wife, Lorraine, have  been residents of Sandia Heights since  1976.  Watch future issues of "The Grit" for  more inside information about your  SHHABoard.  NOW AV All.ABLE AT OUR NEW  STORE IN MONTGOMERY PLAZA.  4411 SAN MATEO/MONTGOMERY  CATERING.SHIPPING.QUANTITY  DISCOUNTS. SPECIALITY MEATS.  PARTY TRAYS. HOMEMADE SOUPS  CASSEROLES, DESSERTS & MORE.  FREE SCHEDULED DELIVERY TO  SANDIA HEIGHTS  FOR HAMS & PARTY TRAYS ONI~Y_,_  BRING IN THIS ISSUE  I CHECK  OUT OUR NEW STORE. AND GET_lj_  OFF YOUR HOLIDAY HAMf f  Page 13  NEW MEXICO'S FIRST &. FINEST  SPIRAL-SLICED. HONEY-GLAZED  GOURMET IIAM.  FULLY COOKED, NEVER FROZEN.  CREATE A  TRADITION I  SANT A FE GLAZED HAM & DELI  888-0408  What is  the Baha'i Faith?  The Baha'i Faith is the newest of the  world religions. But only recently has the  public come to recognize that it is in fact.  a major religion-one worthy of study  and reflection.  Baha'i beliefs are these:  • There is only one God.  &. All religions share a common  foundation.  • Mankind is one. People of all races,  nations, economic groups and religious  backgrounds are equal in the sight of  God.  • the independent investigation of truth  • the essential harmony of science and  religion  • the equality of men and women  • universal compulsory education  • a spiritual solution to the economic  problem  • a universal auxiliary language  • a universal peace upheld by a world  government  If you would like to learn mo1~e about  the Baha'i Faith, please call 293-18~5  Mark Napolin  The pro from Transamerica.  A Transamerica general agent is a  professional. Someone who can help  you determine what you need to  protect your family. And help you plan  for the future.  Transamerica Life Companies has a reputation for security  and stability in the life insurance industry.  But at  Transamerica, life insurance is just the tip of the Pyramid. We  also offer non-qualified, tax-deferred annuities, and pension  and retirement plans for individuals and businesses of all  sizes. Plus we're one of the largest IRA providers in the  insurance industry.  So if you're thinking about the best way to protect your family,  and you're ready to start planning for the future, call the pro  from Transamerica.  Mark J. 1\apolin, CUI, ChFC l  General Agent  6757 Academy '.\t  : 1J  SAM ERICA  Albuquerque, ::\"M 87109  RAN  505-821-7130  SM LIFE COMPANIES  1-800-288-1165  Transa1n'erica Occidental Life Insurance Company  FAX: 505-821-7203  Transamerica Life Insurance and Annutiy Company  THE POWER OF THE PYRAMID IS WORKING FOR you.w  Page 14  Tutoring Services  by  Sandia Heights Resident  Trish Sandager  B.A., M.A. Education  293-3766  Math • Certified Reading Specialist  Picture it Framed  FINE CUSTOM FRAMING AND ART  JOHN & EVY WOODS  1990 and  Previous  Balloon Fiesta  Posters  Available  ELDORADO SQUARE #9  11200 Montgomery NE  Albuquerque, NM 87111  (505) 298-6697  LOUISIANA PLAZA B-8  7200 Montgomery NE  Albuquerque, NM 87109  (505) 883-8966  DOUGLASS K. FISCHER  ThePrudentaal.  Insurance  Annuities  Mutual Funds  Tax Deferred Retirement Plans  9101 Lynx Loop  Special Agent  Home Phone: 293-1949  SHHA  NEIGHBORHOOD COFFEES  :::  Meet new neighbors and see "old" friends at the  neighborhood coffees. Mark your calendar and  notify your hostess if you plan to attend so that  she can plan accordingly! Call Connie Krelle  at 299-0116 if you would like to have a coffee  or if you need a ride.  Everyone welcome!  Wednesday, December 12  10 a.m.-12 noon  at the home of Marianne Tregembo  164 Juniper Hill Rd.  294-5222  Wednesday, January 9  10 a.m.-12 noon  at the home of Barbara Narath  1534 Eagle Ridge Dr.  293-0444  Wednesday, February 13  10 a.m.-12 noon  at the home of Jean Sullivan  221 Spring Creek Ln.  275-3353  Special thanks to Maxine Pozega, Beverly Grady, and  Christy Kawal who hosted our coffees in September,  October, and November.  :::  FREE CONSULTATION  !,:·',·,  50% off first visit with this ad.  state Licensed • By appointment only  120 Aliso S.E., Albuquerque, NM 87106  .·~  Page 15  . Non-Commercial Advertising  Ads in this section are published free and are accepted only from members of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association. Non-commercial ads  are limited to Services (babysitting, house/pet sitting, yard care); For Sale (secondhand household items); Lost/Found; and Wanted. Ads in other  categories we accepted at the discretion of the newsletter staff. Sen ice ads will n1n throughout the calendar year, unless cancelled by the advertiser.  All other ads must be renewed each issue. Call 275-9112 to renew your ad.  Services  AAA BABY SITIER. house sitter, pet sitter.  Please call Michelle Munson at 299-1400.  Experienced, references.  ALL AROUND GOOD QUALITY WORK. I  do all sorts of odd jobs such as baby sitting, yard  work, pet care, etc. Call Marcus Aaron (age 13)  at 298-3843.  BABY SITTER for children, pets, or plants.  Experienced, responsible with  references.  Please call Elisabeth (Izzy) Brown at 299-5560.  BABY SITTER NEEDED? Call Jennifer or  Emily James .. Xou're bound to get a baby sitter  because you're reaching two sitters at once! Girls  are 14 and 15. We've both taken the Red Cross  baby sitting course and many others. Call us at  296-2582.  DOUBLE 'L' BABY SITIERS. Lindsay Worth  and Lindsay Bostick. Dependable, experienced  14yearolds. Lovekidsofallages. LindsayWorth  at 298-6135. Lindsay Bostick at 299-0343.  EXPERIENCED AND RELIABLE BABY  SITTER and house sitter when you are out of  town. I do plants, animals, walk dogs, and other  jobs, and I'm experienced with babies. Call  Karen Truesdell (age 14) at 293-5451.  EXPERIENCED BABY SITIERS, plant  waterers, etc. Tamara Eyer, age 16, and Jamie  Eyer, age 14. Call 298-4288.  FREE MARINE SAFETY INSPECTION of  your boat by the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary.  Call Bill Stabler at 298-8525.  GOINGAWAYFROMHOME? Letmewatch  it for you. I will sit your house, water your  vegetation, feed your animals, and dispel your  worries. I am a physics grad student and Sandia  Heights resident. Call Jon at 294-8464.  GOING OUT OF TOWN and need a house  sitter? Someone to pull your weeds? Mow your  lawn? Take care of your dogs? Call Richard  Truesdell, age 12, at 293-5451 (reliable and  caring).  HOUSE SITIER will take care of your house,  plants, kids, etc. while you're out of town.  Responsible, reliable UNM student and Sandia  Heights resident. References available. Contaci  Erin at 275-0459.  ··  HOUSE SITTING. College student. resident of  Sandia Heights. Reiiable, references. Call Ann  Piasecki at 296-1342.  HOUSE CARE SERVICE including house plant  watering; outside watering; mail and newspaper;  feeding cats, dogs, and fish (no snakes). Tiie prices  vary depending on services. Experienced. Call  Todd Randall at 298-2695.  NEED A BABY SITIER? Call Jenny Fisher (age  13)at294-0264. Experiencedandreliable! Areyou  going out of town? lean take care of your pets and  house.  NEED AN EXPERIENCED BABY SITTER?  Call Jennifer Kosse (age 14) at 293-5096. Will water  plants, take care of dogs, take in mail, etc. Have  worked as councilor-in-training at the YMCA.  PET AND CHILD LOVER will take care of your  petsandkids. lwillwalkandwashorfeedandwater  your furry, feathered, and finn~d friends. Or baby  sit. I have lots of experience in both and have taken  the Red Cross baby sitting course. Call Jennifer  Atkins (age 13) at 292-0621.  PET LOVERAi"ID HOUSE KEEPER. Do you  need your pets walked and/or fed each day? Call  on Jeff Fisher at 294-0264. I will also take care of  your house and yard while you're away.  QUALITY KID CARE by caring kids. We don't  just baby sit, we entertain and help out. Just call  Jamie at 299-8803. Jennifer at 293-1409. Heidi at  292-0936. Stacy at 293-4901.  RELIABLE, EXPERIENCED 13 year old will do  RESPONSIBLE HOUSE SITTER. Will Care  for plants and animals. 18 years old. References  available. Call Amy Steiner 298-2810.  ZZZZ TERRIFIC TEENAGE TWOSOME  available for baby sitting bambinas. Call Pamela  (age 16) or Naomi (age 13) Havlen at 293-9253.  Wanted  BRIDETOBE? Newparent? Newcitizen? Just  moved?  Having a 25th or 50th wedding  anniversary? Welcome Wagon has a basket full  of useful gifts for you. Call Karrie at 275-3366.  CARETAKER for Sandia Heights residence.  Private apartment furnished in exchange for  house sitting/ chores. Call 299-7878.  EXPERIENCED MUSICIANS interested in  joining areggae band. Activities include possible  shows at local restaurants and theaters. Contact  Scott at 298-3843.  P ARTTIME TYPIST needed with experience  on Apple Mcintosh Microsoft Word. Number of  hours per mon_th varies; schedule is flexible. Call  Vivienne at 298-7624.  UNWANTED MUSICAL MERCHANDISE  for nonprofit recording studio/band.  All  instruments;  speakers;  amplifiers;  radios:  extension cords; mixing boards: 2, 4, and 8 trac  recorders; headsets. Willing to pay very little, if  necessary. Call Scott at 298-3843.  childsitting(age3and up). house watching, outside 1------------------;  watering, collecting mail and paper.  Contact  Nathan (lives on Roadrunner Ln.) at 292-8792.  RELIABLE, RESPONSIBLE BABY SITTER.  Experienced with babies. Call Mary Richardson at  298-3770.  For Sale  GT RACING BMX BIKE.  Top-of-the-line  racing components, like new.  Have to sell!  Sacrifice for only $150 OBO. Call Scott at 298- 3843.  SANDIA HEIGHTS BRIDGE CLUB  tt Drop that broom  and join us for  bridge!"  Ladies Daytime Bridge  3rd Monday  4th Wednesday  2nd Thursday  2nd Friday  ~  ~  Couples Evening Bridge  1st Saturday  2nd Saturday  4th Saturday  1st Monday  3rd Wednesday  There are new groups forming each week; if you would like to play  in any group or join a new group, call Sara Warford at 293-4367.  Page 16  HOLIDAY CRAFT BAZAAR·  Featuring Arts & Crafts Of Sandia Heights' Artisans  Sunday, November 11  11 :00 a.m.-4:00 p.m.  Paseo del Norte Fire Station  11700 Paseo del Norte NE  A portion of the proceeds will be donated to the community's volunteer fire department.  Sponsored Annually By The  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  .SrLn.d.LrL f/E...Lg/z..t4.. f/trm.E...trurn.E...t.~ f/~4..trt!.LtLtL<rn.  SHP..A - THE GRIT  P.O. BOX 20021  ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87154-0021  BULK RATE  U.S. POSTAGE  PAID  Albuquerque, NM  PERMIT NO. 375  