Volume 90  February 1990  Number 1  Zoning Ch,~nge Request Meets  Oppositio~ From Homeowners  Homeowners Show  Interest In  Recycling Program  A contingency of Sandia '\Heights  residents and other concerned 1 1 parties  recently succeeded in getting an  "indefinite continuance" on  1 1 zoning  change and special use permit tequests  for a parcel of land located ', at the  northeast corner of Tramway Blyd. and  San Bernardino. .  1  Don Morgan,.-~- .local develoJer and  owner of the 15-acre parcel of land,  submitted the requests to the Bernalillo  County Planning Commission. Morgan  requested a change from A-1 to C-1 ·  (unrestricted commercial) zonin~ for a  84-acre section of the total parcel and a  \'  •  !.  1pec1al Use Permit for a  pl~mned  residential  development  on 1 1 1  the  remaining 14 acres.  Rod  Stewart,  Chair  of  1 1.  the  Association's Government Liaison  Committee, represented the Sandia  Heights Homeowners Association ,at the  January3hearing. David Sullivan, Board  member and advisor to the Association  on legal matters, also participat~d on  behalf of the SHHA.  "A whole series of meetings waS, held  before the hearing with a variety of  interested individuals and groups,'' 1 \ Rod  said, "including Mr. Morgan, his 1gent  Vern Hagen, Sandia Heights residents,  County Commissioner Pat Cassidy~ and  members of the Albuquerque Acres  Homeowners Association."  1  Rod said it eventually became clear  that Sandia Heights' residents werJ not  going to be able to reach an agreement  with Mr. Morgan, particularly ove~ the  .commercial zoning issue. "M:any  residents in our community object td, any  ··,crease in commercial zoning," ~od  . ~aid. "This request for C-1 zoningwith no  restrictions raises even more objectipns,  because it allows commercial uses that  "There obviously is a great deal of  would be unacceptable to the Sandia  interest in the subject of recycling in  Heights community."  Sandia Heights," said Bill Heflin, SHHA  "The SHHA went to the Planning  Board member and Chair of the new  Commission with a well organized case  Recycling Committee.  against the request for unrestricted C-1  Bill reported that 92 homeowners were  zoning on the smaller parcel of land,"  contacted in the recent recycling  Rod said. "Our position, combined with  telephone survey, or nearly 10% of those  the concerns expressed by the Sandia  with listed telephone numbers in the  Peak Tram Co., the North Albuquerque  Sandia Heights Directory. Sixty-one, or  Acres Association, and individual  nearly two-thirds of those contacted, are  homeowners, were enough to get a  presently recycling at least part of their  continuance on both requests."  waste products. Paper and aluminum  "This problem was created by the  salvage were most frequently mentioned.  County Public Works Department's  Seventy-one(83.5%) oftheinterviewees  current plan for the re-routing of San  Continued on page 2  Bernardino," Rod said. "We're going to ----------------- havetostayalertonthisissue,because it's In this issue ...  going to come up again before the County  Planning Commission in the not too  distant future."  The Bernalillo County Planning  Commission continued indefinitely Don  Morgan's request based on the following  conditions:  1. The applicant (Mr. Morgan) should  re-evaluate the application and provide  input to this Commission and the  Planning Department relative to  alternative locations for the realignment  of San Bernardino Ave. into the property.  2. The applicant should provide more  information on the development, which  would include the architectural  restrictions and covenants that would be  consistent with the Sandia Heights  Master Plan.  3. A more detailed landscaping plan  should be included in the site  development plan.  4. Precise information regarding right- of-way for Tramway Blvd. should be  Advertising Rates .................................. 4  Book Club ............................................ 11  Bridge Club ........................................... 7  Bulletin Board ....................................... 7  Covenant Support ............................... 14  CVFD#5 ............................................... 3  Christmas Lights Contest ..................... 7  Government Liaison ............................. 3  Grit Circulation .................................... .4  Grit Deadline ........................................ 4  Legal Notice ........................ : ............... 11  Neighborhood Coffee ......................... 15  Non-Commercial Ads ........................ 15  Opera Club .......................................... 14  President's Message ............................. 2  Recycling ............................................... 1  SHHA Board Meetings ........................ 3  Spring Fling ........................................... 4  Stitchery Group ................................... 11  Tramway Boulevard Project .............. 12  View from Jack Rabbit Hill ................ 11  Wildflower Club .................................. 11  Zoning .................................................... 1  provided.  • "-------------- .Sa..1Ld.la.. f/e..L~/z..t'1. f/u-m..L<rum..E...U ... f/M.<r~La..tl<r!L  i!I  Page 2  THE -=  -- - -=  I  The GRIT is the official  newsletter of the  SANDIA HEIGHTS ,  HOMEOWNERS  I  I  ASSOCIATION, INC.!  P.O. Box 20021  I  Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021  EDITOR:  Sherry Lombana  14201 Encantado NE  Albuquerque, NM 87123  275-9112  PUBLISHER:  MICRODATA inc.  c/o Harry Criel  500 Marquette l\"'W, Suite 220  Albuquerque, NM 87102  1  247-4011  Recycling  Continued from page 1  I  said they would consider participating in  a recycling program.  Respons~s were  about equally divided between those  wanting curb-side pickup and those  favoring depositories.  '  ''Based on the survey results,  1and for  reasons of economy, the Bo~rd has  decided to implement a two-lbcation,  depository system." Bill said. The new  Recycling Committee will be ~orking  with the SHHA Board of DireCtors to  select collection locations and an  organization to pick up recyclable  materials. The committee alsd will be  developing  and implementing a  community education progra~ about  recycling.  '  "It's vital that we get a goqd cross  section of the community involv~d in the  Recycling Committee," Bill  said.  "Association members who wbuld be  interested in serving with Ed Bares, Ray  Wood, Marilyn Christensen, J .D; Eiland,  and myself on this important ! project  should contact me (291-0489) or Sherry  Lombana at the SHHA office (275- 9112)."  •  Message From The President  The Good, The Bad, and The Uncertain  -- Ed Bates, SHHA President  Kierkegaard once wrote: "During the first period of a man's life the greatest  danger is not to take the risk. When once the risk has really been taken, then the  greatest danger is to risk too much. By not risking at first, one turns aside and  serves trivialities; ... by risking too much, one turns aside to the fantastic, and  perhaps to presumption."  As I complete my third year with the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  Board of Directors, and especially during this past year as your President, I am  convinced that Board members walk a delicate balance between risking too much  and risking too little. To err in either direction, as Kierkegaard notes, is to set  aside those things most important to the maintenance and enhancement of an  organization.  All of us must challenge ourselves and those with whom we share this blessed  community to reach out beyond our limits to embrace that which is new. We need  to participate in the processes of improvement, discovery, and creation. At the  same time, we must assure that our preoccupation with the future does not allow  us to forget the lessons of the past nor to ignore the critical agenda of the present.  Earthquakes, international events of the day, and even the abandonment of  one's car near Tramway during a winter storm testifies that humankind is feeble  when confronted with the powerful forces of nature. Unfortunately, such events  suggest to many that we may be powerless as individuals as well.  Not true! A number of homeowners and new and seasoned Board members  have put such a notion to rest in recent weeks in Sandia Heights. The good news  is recounting some of these people who have impacted Sandia Heights in a  positive manner.  * Doug and Olivia Powell, Lenora Austin, Rod Stewart, and Dave Sullivan  were but a few of those who gave time and energy in the articulate defense against  Tramway rezoning to commercial purposes.  * All of the participants in the Christmas lights contest beautified our  neighborhoods during the holidays and enriched the lives of all who took the time  to admire their decorations.  '~ Joe Hollingsworth pursued an idea to help homeowners locate reputable  contractors -- an idea that has become operational in a matter of weeks.  '''  Rab Freeman, Lucy Russell, Leona Rubin, and Jane Stabler contributed  many hours to the planning and organization of the Association's Arts and Crafts  Bazaar for the enjoyment of homeowners and for the benefit of our County  Volunteer Fire Department #5. Sara Warford already has begun planning for  the Association's annual celebration of the rites of Spring -- The Spring Fling.  * Rod Stewart was reactivated by the Board recently to act as Chair of the  Government Liaison Committee. Already he has given countless hours of direct  intervention, along with David Sullivan, in ensuring that zoning and land planning  uses continue to serve us all.  * Other members who have dared to risk themselves knowing that they could  make a difference are Rod Tregembo, newly appointed Covenant Support  Committee Chair; Evelyn Martin and Ray Wood, recently assigned to assist Jack  Wirtz and Bill Stabler as Architectural Review Committee members; and Bill  Heflin, a take-charge person with the lead responsibility for promoting recycling  opportunities in Sandia Heights.  Continued on page 4  !  Civic-M,inded Members Sought  For Gowernment Liaison Work  "If you have an interest in preservino- ,  "'  the unique character and beauty of the  Sandia Heights community, then we have  a need for your servicb," said Rod  Stewart, Chair of the Association's Gov- ernment Liaison Commit'tee.  I  "The Tramway Improv,ement Project  has raised considerable concern about  city and county plans to d¢al with issues  such as noise levels, air quality, traffic  congestion, and landscaping ... or lack of  it," Rod said.  "I'm sure we can also expect rezoning  and special use requests f9r commercial  purposes on tracts along Tramway Blvd.  that \Vill not satisfy the 'homeowners'  criteria for preserving t~e residential  character of the San,dia Heights  community," Rod said. "The bottom line  is we must be willing to d~vote the time  and effort that's going to be required to  properly monitor these issues on a long  term basis. To do that "".e have to get  organized."  The preliminary objectives identified  for the Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association Government  Liaison  Committee are as follows: '·  I  ~· Maintenance of close. ties with the  City Council, County Comipission, State  Legislature,  County :  Planning  Commission, County Public Works, and  other governmental agencies to stay  abreast of key issues inipacting the  Sandia Heights community.  I  ·~ SHHA representationl,at all city and  county meetings that impact the Sandia  Heights community.  i  ·~ Secure a representati\:'e from each  of the Sandia Heights subdiv~sions (units)  to alert homeowners when' issues arise  that affect the community. '  ·~ Coordination  with  other  homeowners' associations/groups and  other interested parties  ~e.g. North  Albuquerque Acres and Sandia Peak  Tram Co.) to identify common interests  and achieve our common goals.  '" Pursuit of resources (state, county,  city, and neighborhood) for landscaping  Tramway Blvd. north of Montgomery to  Tramway Rd.  ·~ Development of a plan for  landscaping and maintenance of this  same strip along Tramway Blvd.  Please contact Sherry Lombana at the  SHHA office (275-9112) if you can help  in any one, or several, of the areas listed  above.  ·-- - "As with most comm unity projects, our  productivity will be in direct proportion  to our level of participation," Rod said. "I  personally consider the beautification of  Tramway Blvd. as not only vital to  preserving the quality of life which  brought us here in the first place, but also  good protection for our property values  and a responsible legacy for our children  and grandchildren.  To paraphrase  Thomas Jefferson, Vigilance is still the  price of liberty."  •  Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association  Board of Directors Meetings  2nd Wednesday  of Each Month  7:30 p.m.  Paseo del Norte  Fire Station  Everyone Welcome!  Page3  From The Desk  Of Chief 5  Over the past two months, we have had  two homes in the Sandia Heights area  heavily damaged by fire.  In both incidents the cause of the fire  was either directly or indirectly related to  the fireplace. In one case, a flammable  fuel was used in trying to get a fire started.  In the other case, fireplace ashes were  placed in a bucket outside the home.  High winds blew the ashes out of the  bucket and started the fire.  Placing blame and making judgments  are both counterproductive, but we can  learn something about fire prevention  from these unfortunate incidents. Fire  prevention is everyone's responsibility!  * Never use any flammable fuels to  start a fireplace fire.  ·~ Always put ashes m a metal  container with a lid and fill the bucket  with water to make sure they are out.  Remember, if in doubt about a fire or  medical emergency, call your Bernalillo  County Fire Department Fire District  Number 5. We are here to help.  •Emergency Phone Number 292-4011  •Non-Emergency Number 293-4275  -- C/01* "Sparkie" Speakman  Fire Chief, CVFD District #5  Support  Your  GRIT  Advertisers  Page 4  11THEGRl 1T 11  ADVERTISING! RATES  .\"on-commercial ads (baby sitting. hoi/se sitting. etc.) FREE  to members of the Sandia Heights Hoij1eowners Association.  i  Business card size - S35 per three (3)1,issues  Commercial ads - minimum of S35!per 1/-l page  (S65 per half-page. $125 per full-page)  I  ALL ADS \1CST BE CA\1ERA-READY A.\"D CORRECTLY SIZED*  PAY\1E\T \1CST ACCO'.'vfPA:\-Y ALL C0\1\1ERCIAL ADS  *Advertising Artwork and La~out Service Available - Call 2-l7-4011  0  0  0  ~~OJ2~~:~1u_ 1  Tired of tpe same old recipes?  Then learn ofilr New Exciting Recipes.  I  Enjpy a nite out at  cop KN OTES  The company of £fiends, delicious samplings of  gourmet delights, and r~cipes you'll be recreating at home  Call 291-8020 for] reservations or information.  Bring this ad for 20% off the class of your choice.  I  :'\ot \:alid with other offers.  '  Good, Bad, Uncertain 1  Continued from page 2  The bad news is that Walt Kelly's 6ften  quoted discovery -- of who is th~ real  enemy -- is reconfirmed from tiiVe to  time by a few residents and would-be  homeowners in Sandia Heights. Review  and monitoring of architectural; and  covenant policies (policies that vary from  unit to unit throughout the 28 diff~rent  subdivisions) continues to be the  1most  •  .  d  .  11·  time-consummg an  nerve-Jang mg  responsibility of your Board.  W~ile it  may be an over-simplification, all too  often disputes between neighbors and  the demands of new home builders ~ome  dm\lll to the matter of a few individuals  who simply want their own way -- the  community, and the covenants that  protect the community, be damned!  Fortunately, the bad news is limited to a  very few.  Changes are occurring rapidly across  Sandia Heights. As we prepare ourselves  to take the risks necessary to respond to  new challenges, we need your support in  defining that delicate balance between  moving too fast with too much and  moving too slowly with too little.  Let us know how this Board can  enhance your willingness to join us in  taking the risks required to make us even  better tomorrow.  •  Deadline for the  May  11Grit 11  The deadline for submitting ads or  articles for the May GRIT is Monday,  April 16, 1990.  Please submit all  materials to Sherry Lombana, 14201  Encantado NE, Albuquerque, NM  87123, 275-9112.  THE GRIT welcomes brief, original  letters concerning current topics in the  news. Letters must include full name and  signature of the author, address, and  telephone number (though these can be  omitted from the printed copy, if  requested). The newsletter staff reserves  the right to edit or condense any letter.  Send letters to Sherry Lombana at the  above address.  "Grit" Circulation  This issue of The Grit was mailed to  1093 members of the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association.  SPRING FLING  Memorial Day  Monday, May 28  10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.  Sandia Heights Park  Friendly Competition  ''' Basketball Shooting  * Horseshoe Pitching  ,; Baseball  Delicious Food  f"r°69  '; Barbecue Hamburgers/Hot Dogs  The Four Seasons pool will be open for  those who would like to swim.  FREE to members of the Sandia  Heights Homeowners Association  Guests Welcome ($2 per person)  Volunteers are needed to help with  cooking and games. Call Sara Warford  for more information at 293-4367.  STATE FARM  &  INSURANCE  ®  STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES  HOME OFFICES  BLOOMINGTON, ILLINOIS  I  John N. Gabaldon  I  i Agent  12700 San Rafael N.E., Suite 6-C  North of Academy on Tramway ',  Albuquerque, New Mexico 871 ~2  Bus. (505) 293-9300  Res. (505) 275-2636  ..  ...  ...  FIREWOOD - FIREWOOD - FIREWOOD  M  N en  N  I \0  en  N  Serving:Sandia Heights  for IO Years  I.  Delivered and Stacked  Call Doug Fischer  Ranch Phone 1-773-4733  Marty Kill, R.nT  vio 1 in lessons  292-2000  901 Tramwqy Ln. N.E. 87122  ..Your Pl~ns or mine?"  MAGNUM HOMES  Uc. 16428  New Homes. Additions.  Remqdel. Repair.  Garaees. Hot Tubs & More  Flat Bid or Cost Plus  OAUE WERNICKE. Owner  I  II  N  \0  0\  I  N  \0  .....i  w  Page5  Picture It Framecf  (FORMERLY FOLGER'S FRAME-IT)  JOHN & EVY WOODS  ELDORADO SQUARE #9  LOUISIANA PLAZA 8-8  1 1 200 MONTGOMERY NE  7200 MONTGOMERY NE  ALBUQUERQUE, NM 871 11  ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87109  (505) 298-6697  (505) 883-8966  . '.  • •  STAHL,llC.  ®  Sandia Heights Resident  BILL YE GAMSBY  Realtor  m  OE•i•oo'  11000 SPAIN NE, SUITE B  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87111  Bus. (505) 292-4455 Res. (505) 298-2189  Pager 7 68-8208  GONZALES & WRITTENBERRY  CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS  2308 EUBANK N.E.  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 871 1 2  JAMES M. WRITTENBERRY  505/293·21 50  NIIllO 100  JANE R. HEAD  Associate Broker  GRI  Office (505) 828-1000  Residence (505) 275-0802  7007 Wyoming Blvd., N.E. Building C Albuquerque, New Mexico 87109  Page6  ( 505) 296-3188  (505) 296-5552  Joe Santangelo  257 Juan Tabo, N.E.  License No. 10020  Albuquerque, New Mexico 87123'  VISA and MasterCharge accepted  ,FRAN COGEN  1ASSOCIATE BROKER  !HOME 298-8990  A speclalized program  of music enjbyment for pre- school children!  Call Nancy  Johns, 299-096~, for more  information!!  256-3648  '11"E HA! ETHE TL\IE  TlHTl"OC DOST.'"  CO:MMERCL-\.L A'.\"D RESIDE'.\"Tl>\L  CLEASl'.\"G, REPAIR, A'.\"D  MAI'.\"TE'.\"A'.\"CE SERVICES  - FREE ESTl~l>\TES - Paul & Kathy Cox  229 Figueroa NE, #1  Albuquerque, NM 87123  (505) 296-5167  Lie. #96473  ACCREDITED PLUMBING  AND  CONSTRUCTION CO.  Quality Work - Reasonable Price  Plumbing Repairs, New Construction,  Additions, Emergency Repair Work  FRANK R. ERNST  P.O. Box 11991  (505) 262-0187  License #027346 Albuquerque, NM  CLEANING  REASONABLE RATES AND THOROUGH,  PERSONALIZED SERVICE.  SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.  FOR ESTIMATE, CALL CINDA, 293-3960  (505) 299-0963  Nancy Eckert Johns  Music Instructor - Piano Specialist  1823 Tramway Terrace Loop NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  Lights Reflect  Holiday Spirit  The 1989 Christmas lights of Sandia  Heights were a beautiful sight to behold.  "Our four judges had an especially  difficult time this year agreeing on only  three winners," said Michael Cox,  Director of Parks and Recreation for the  Sandia  Heights  Homeowners  Association and organizer of the  Association's annual Christmas lights  contest.  "Every year there are more and more  participants in the contest,'.' Mike said.  "It really is exciting to see how interest in  the contest has grown over the years."  Entrants were judged over a two-night  period, and points were awarded for  creativity,  novelty,  effort,  and  presentation. The winners:  1st Prize  Don & Evelyn Neil 690 Blackhawk Dr.  2nd Prize  Gary Williams  569 Black Bear Rd.  3rd Prize  William Swatner  433 Live Oak Loop  The following displays earned  honorable mentions: Max and Claudia  Sanchez, 1514 Eagle Ridge Rd.; R. W.  and Elizabeth Crain, 24 Sandia Heights  Dr.; Mark Wilson, 1406 Bluebell Pl.;  Charles Ronkos, 32 Cedar Hill Pl.; Jam es  and Carole Kohner, 33 Juniper Hill Rd.;  James Jordan, 148 Whitetail Rd.; Gill  Baca, 501 Black Bear Loop; Robert and  Ann Jarrell, 504 Black Bear Loop.  Thanks to all homeowners who took  time from busy schedules to decorate  their homes. The displays added so much  to the holiday spirit of peace and  goodwill. Let's try to hold that spirit  throughout the coming months.  •  Page 7  --- - ------ - = ~~=  - ~ E~~  - ~~ ~  ----------------- - - - - - BOARD  •  The SHHA was able to present our County Volunteer Fire  Department with a check for $391.47, thanks to the success of the  annual Holiday Bazaar.  •  The Sandia Peak Utility Company has changed the after hours water  emergency number to 296-0736. Please change your listing of  emergency numbers accordingly. The utility company also reminds  you that their responsibility for water service repair of leaks stops at  the water meter. Homeowners are responsible for leaks that occur  on their own property.  •  Mail at the SHHA post office box is collected once a week.  Homeowners who want to insure prompt delivery of their  communications to.members of the Board of Directors should send  their correspondence to the SHHA office, 14201 Encantado Rd. NE,  87123. Registered and certified mail should be addressed to the  specific Board member c/o Sherry Lombana, SHHA Executive  Assistant, at the above address.  •  Homeowners are reminded that it is both inconsiderate and against  county ordinance to allow their dogs to "create a nuisance" on  someone else's property. This includes the "deposits" that your dog  may make while you are out in the neighborhood jogging, walking, or  biking.  Ladies Daytime Bridge  3rd Monday  4th Wednesday  2nd Thursday  2nd Friday  ''Drop that  broom and join  us for bridge!"  Couples Evening Bridge  1st Saturday  2nd Saturday  4th Saturday  1st Monday  3rd Wednesday  ·~  ••  There are new groups forming each week; if you would like to play in any  group or join a new group, call Sara Warford at 293-4367.  Page8  Referral Pr9gram Makes Homeowners' Lives Easier  "The price quote for re-roofing my  house went up 25% after the con~ractor  discovered I lived in Sandia Heights.  That's when I realized something needed  to be done to help homeowne}s find  reputable contractors."  ·  SHHA Member Joe Hollingsworth  reports that he eventually found a good  roofing contractor through a co-worker's  referral. This was the birth of Joe's idea  to start t~e Sandia Heights Homeowners  AT THE TRAM  (505) 292-3473  Referral Program, an idea eagerly  supported by the SHHA Board of  Directors.  The program is set up to collect data  from homeowners, organize the data into  service categories, and then make it  available to homeowners who are  contemplating or anticipating home  maintenance and repair projects. "The  purpose of the program is to share  information from homeowners, not to  • fork-tender steak fajita dinner  • a cold draft beer or soft drink  • as ALWAYS, tram ride discount  ($2.50 off) \Vith EVERY dinner  at THE FIREHOUSE.  This special offer for our Sandia Heights neighbors  Good through May 1, 1990.  SANDIA PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH  We are a new church looking forward to meeting our  neighb<;m and being of service.  If you are currently not attending a church, please visit us. Come  see if we aren't a warm, c;aring group that you might like to be part  of. New churches are exciting places! Important decisions must be  made. There is much to do. If you are the pioneering, adventurous  sort, we might be the church you have been looking for!  I  Meeting at: ; Dennis Chavez Elementary  ' San Francisco at Barstow  9:30 a.m. Sundays  I  Rev. Dewey Johnson  881-0655  A NEW CHURCH DEVELOPMENT OF THE P.C.U.S.A.  I  make recommendations," Joe said.  The U.S. Air Force brought Joe to  Albuquerque in 1974 as a Charter  Member of the Air Force Test and  Evaluation Center.  Joe retired as a  Lieutenant Colonel from theAir Force in  1979 after 22 years of service.  "I never had to deal with home  maintenance problems before," Joe said,  "because I was transferred by the Air  Force every two or three years. This is the  first house I've stayed in long enough to  need things repaired or replaced."  Besides coming up with ideas to make  life easier for Sandia Heights residents,  Joe owns and is the Executive Vice  President of First New Mexico Leasing,  Inc. The company, whichwasestablished  in 1981, arranges equipment lease  financing for business, industrial, and  commercial clients. In fact, Joe is one of  the authorities quoted in the February  issue of the New Mexico Business  Journal in an article about the advantages  of equipment leasing.  Joe and his wife, Kathy, became Sandia  Heights residents in 1978. They decided  that they wanted to make Sandia Heights  their permanent home one summer  evening in 1977 as they watched the  sunset from a friend's patio in Sandia  Heights. "It was a very romantic setting,"  Joe said, "and I remember saying to  Kathy that it wasn't a question of whether  to move to Sandia Heights but when we  could move to Sandia Heights. To Kathy  that meant, Let's do it! Within a week we  had picked several potential home sites,  and the rest is history."  [Editor's Note: Guidelines and a rating  fonn for the Sandia Heights Homeowners  RefeJTal Program appear on pages 9 and  10. T71e program is offered free of charge  to members of the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association. Homeowners  who mail in a completed fonn will  automatical~v receive a replacement fonn  in the mail. To obtain additional rating  0  f onns, contact the SHHA office at 275- 9112.]  •  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  Homeowners Referral Program  Guidelines  Page 9  The Homeowners Re\erral Program is an information service for homeowners who are contemplating or anticipating home  maintenance or repair projects. Information about homeowners' experiences with contractors/service providers is collected on  the rating forms, and the forms are filed according to service categories.  All rating forms -- bG>th positive and negative -- are included in the referral file. Association members need to make  arrangements to review the file in person, as names of contractors or service providers can not be given over the telephone.  Two identical copies of the referral file are maintained -- one at the Sandia Heights residence of the program's organizer, Joe  Hollingsworth, and one qt the office of the SHHA Executive Assistant, Sherry Lombana. Arrangements can be made to review  the file by contactingJoe ?r Sherry (see below). To receive additional copies of the rating form, contact Sherry at the SHHA office.  Helpful Hint:  Be prepared! Come and review the file before the  plumbing backs up or the heat goes off in mid-winter.  Possible referral categories include the following:  •Air Conditioning/Heating  • Floor Covering Installation  •Painting  •Plumbers  • Appliance Repair  • Cabinet Work  • Carpenters  • Carpet Cleaning  • Chimney Cleaning  •Concrete/Asphalt  • Drywall/Plastering  • Electricians  • Exterminators  •Fences  • Fireplace Repair ·  • Foundation Repair  • Garage Door Opener Service  • General Handyman  • Glass/Mirror  • Gutters/Downspouts/Canales  • Interior Decorating  • Landscaping Services  •Locksmith  • Maid Service  • Mailbox Installation  •Masonry  • Pool Service  • Propane Service  • Roofing/Roof Repairs  • Security Systems ,  • Septic Tank Service  • Sprinkler Repair  • Stucco Work  •Tree Removal  • Wall papering  • Window Cleaning  TheHomeowners Referral program does not eliminate the homeowner's responsibility  to obtain competitive bids; secure written contracts/estimates; or verify a contractor's.  prof~ssional qualifications, licenses, or bonding. The Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association does not recommend any particular service or service provider. The  Association only maintains a file of rating forms prepared by homeowners who have used  these services and makes the file available to members of the Homeowners Association.  Joe Hollingsworth  359 Big Horn Ridge Rd. NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  299-0190  Sherry Lombana  14201 Encantado Rd. NE  Albuquerque, NM 87123  275-9112  Rating Fann On Reverse Side  Page 10  SHHA REFERRAL PROGRAM  RATING FORM  Type of Service Provided  Name of Company /Service Provider  Company Address  Ho~eowners Address  Answer the following questions that are applicable to the service provided:  1.  Provided a written contract or estimate?  YesO No D  Please attach a copy of the contract or estimate, if possible.  Mail to:  Sherry Lombana  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  14201 Encantado Rd. NE  Albuquerque, NM 87123  Phone No.  Contact Name  Phone No. (optional)  2.  Priced reasonably (in line with the quality and scope of work)?  YesO NoO  3.  Adhered to original cost estimate (excluding changes)?  YesO NoO  4.  Acquired your approval prior to making changes in the scope of work?  YesO NoO  Changes in price?  YesO  No D  5.  Documented (in writing) changes in the price or scope of work before the work was performed?  YesO NoO  6.  Would you use this contactor'~ senices again?  YesO NoO  Rate the quality of work according to the following criteria:  Excellent  Good  Fair  Poor  7.  Keeps appointments.  D  D  D  D  8.  Notifies you if delayed.  D  D  D  D  9.  Completes work on time.  D  D  D  D  10.  Cleans up after completion of work.  D  D  D  D  11.  Considerate of property.  D  D  D  D  12.  Overall quality of work.  D  D  D  D  Additional comments:  Signature of Homeowner  Date  .~  TREES FOR OUR GRASSLAND  Part III'  Oldies But Not Always Goodies  I must confess I've rewritten this  section several times; I fear this article  may sound as ifl dislike trees. Not so, but  our land is not truly a treed land, and if we  import trees we should think carefully  about their requirements. Life can be  tough for many trees. without low  humidity, and others that have been  introduced and thrive have serious long  term disadvantages.  If we consider our wild winds here, we  shouldn't be growing very tall trees. Most  of the tall trees that will withstand our  climate -- elm, cottonwood, silver maple,  Lombardy poplar -- require a great deal  of water and can becom~ dangerously  brittle or invasive. Lombardies are weak  wooded, shortlived, and writer hogs. Our  native cottonwoods are good trees for  large areas with shallow water tables.  (Some nurseries sell non-rtative populus  species and cultivars as .cottonwoods.  According to arborist Brian Suhr, they  are more susceptible to breakage and  disease.) Because they need so much  water, the cottonwoods and poplars will  take over small gardens .and make it  difficult to grow anything else. Siberian  elm, traditionally planted as a shade tree  in New Mexico, is a pest, brittle, dirty and  reseeding itself weedily all over the place.  The beautiful aspens come. from higher,  cooler, and wetter altitudes and shouldn't  be asked to be drought resistant.  I have some affection for the Russian  olives in spite of their awful spines and  bad habits because their soft grey color  Page 11  THEVIEVV FROM !ACKRABBIT HILL  seems happy in our landscape. They are  a terrible weed in some areas. In Kansas,  they have taken over a number of  waterways.  They are not very heat  tolerant. A number of hybrids are being  sold, including "King Red" that has  bright red fruit, but these are still  invasive.  A tree often seen in old New Mexico  gardens is the Tree of Heaven. Though it  can be decent looking if kept trimmed, it  should have been turned back at the  border because it is so invasive, reseeding  itself wildly. It is one of the plants, along  with valerian, that I'm sure will inherit the  earth when mankind is long gone.  Mulberries have been popularly planted .  in town as a dense shade tree, but they  have hea\y water requirements and can  cause intense allergy problems for some  people.  A sentimental favorite of the old  Southwest is the tamarix (sail cedar) -- pretty, graceful, pink in spring and golden  in fall. Its disadvantage is a gigantic one  -- it will drive out other plants in its search  for water. In the Bosque del Apache it is  Bookworms  Wanted  The Sandia Heights Book Club meets  once a month, September through May.  New members are always welcome. Call  Sue Ottinger (293-6759) or Marilyn  Whitehouse  (299-5740)  for  more  information.  Sew&Sews  Anyone interested in sewing and  fellowship is invited to join the Sandia  Heights Stitchery Group. The group  meets on 2nd and 4th Mondays at 11:00  a.m. Bring your favorite project and a  sack lunch; the hostess furnishes  beverages and dessert. Call Lucy Russell  (294-3583) for information about the  location of the next meeting.  a serious problem to the refuge and  hundreds of thousands of dollars have  been spent in trying to remove it from  western waterways.  It shouldn't be  planted, especially near water courses, as  it will choke them in time.  We need to look for alternatives to  these old dears.  --Jean Heflin  SANDIA HEIGH~T  WILDFLOWER  ~  CLUB  Ql  The Sandia Heights Wildflower Club  enjoyed a presentation at their January  meeting by Bill Heflin and Gil Brady  featuring slides of wildflowers.  The  meeting was held at the home of the  club's treasurer, Glenna Pierce.  The Wildflower Club's next meeting  will feature a program on drip irrigation  and will be held on March 12th at 7:30  p.m. in the home of Jean and Bill Heflin,  443 Live Oak Loop.  Interested Sandia Heights residents  are invited to attend. Call Jean Heflin  (291-0489) for more information.  Legal  Notice  Public Notice To  All Property Owners  Sandia Heights  Subdivisions  Bernalillo County,  New Mexico  Notice is hereby given that Evelyn  Martin and Ray Wood were officially  appointed on February 10, 1990 to  serve on the Architectural Review  Committee. Within 30 days of the  date of this appointment, owners of a  majority of the residential lots in  Sandia Heights Subdivisions may  select other appointees if the  appointments are unsatisfactory to  them.  Page 12  Tramway Boulevard Tagged 'Plain Vanilla'  "Plain vanilla" is the official description  of the current Tramway Improvement  Project. The layman's interpretation of  this term is that funds have been allo'~ated  for road construction only  -~ no  landscaping.  '  Jogging and bike trails will be included,  however, as part of the road constn;:ction  and all dirt banks and brims will be  seeded by the county. Funds allocated for  the Tramway project also include any  construction necessary for compliance  with state noise standards.  The Homeowners Association was  represented by Dave Sullivan, SHHA  Board member, at a January 17 meeting  ~~~ BOOTEl/STAHL,llC.  r~...iimREALTORSe---:~~~~~~~~~~  Maria Ratner  An award winning Realtor  ranking among the top 5%  nationally!  Over 13 years of experience!  Sandia Heights Resident!  OFFERS FREE BUYER OR  SELIER CONSULTATION  Business: (505) 296-5591  Home:  (505) 292-1933  3 Good Reasons to Choose  Integrity * Experience * Success!  10% Discount Coupon  Picture It !Framed  Custom :O-:ramitt:Q. ana J'Lrt  (Formerly:: Folger s Frame.It)  El Dorado Square #9  11200 Montgomery NE ,  (505) 298-6697  Louisiana Plaza B-8  7200 Montgomery NE  (505) 883-8966  10% Discount Coupon  sponsored by the New Mexico State  Highway Department.  During that  meeting, the highway department  announced plans to utilize prefabricated  concrete walls (40" high) for noise  abatement purposes along Tramway  Blvd. These will be like the walls  currently in use at the Tramway /Paseo  del Norte intersection and will be placed  where there are no existing walls along  the roadway.  Phase I of the project, the Tramway/  Paseo del Norte intersection, began in  October 1989 and is scheduled for  completion in July 1990. Phase II, the  widening ofTramwayfrom Montgomery  to Paseo de! Norte, is slated to begin by  June 1990. Both of these projects, as well  as the road improvements from  Tramway Rd. to 125, are being funded  entirely by the county and state.  At the present time, the Tramway  Improvement  Project  is  short  approximately $2 million of the funds  necessary to complete the road from  Paseo del Norte to the Sandia  Reservation. Considering the shortfall  on funds for completion of even a "plain  vanilla" roadway, the SHHA Board of  Directors has decided not to pursue  landscaping as part of the road  construction.  As a follow-up plan of action, the  Board intends to spearhead efforts to  obtain funds for landscaping through  City Council, City Parks and Recreation,  and county bond issues as well as through  the developers who own land along  Tramway  Blvd.  and  community  beautification projects.  A project of this magnitude will require  a significant amount of involvement by  members of the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association (see Civic- Minded Members story on page 3).  Interested persons are urged to contact  the SHHA office.  •  - \  !  FULLY CIOKE,, HEUER FROZEN  llOURM~T IURLITY  !  SPIRRl SLICED  cusrota\t &LRZED  JUST Rl6HT FOR RNY OCCRSllN!  !  SPECIRL EASTER OFFER  ORDER YOUR ERSTER llRM BEFORE  I  RPllL 1, IND RECEIUE FREE TRIRL  I  SIZE JRLRP,ENQ GLAZE ! !  ~~  i  ~·~t. GLRZE,_, HRM I' DEL I  TllMWHY I~ SRN RHFIEL  I  294t7551  !  HOMEMADE SOUPS It ENTREES  DINE-IN BR CRRRY-IUT  I  I  I  I  ONE OF  ALBUQUERQUE'S  LEADING REAL  ESTATE  MARKETERS  NOW LIVES IN  SANDIA HEIGHTS  Page 13  MAX SANCHEZ  MAX SANCHEZ has consistently been one of Al- buquerque's top producers in real estate and a mem- ber of Los Mejores (Albuquerque Board of Realtors  Best) since its inception ten years ago. Last year he  was recognized as being the third leading producer in  Albuquerque. For all of your real estate needs, just call  your neighbor, Max. Residence: 293-8118.  Iii~~;~~~  6100 lndlan School Rd., N.E., Albuquerque, NM 87110  505/883·6161  Mark N apolin  The pro from Transamerica.  A Transamerica general agent is a  professional. Someone who can help  you determine what you need to  protect your family. And help you plan  for the future.  Transamerica Life Companies has a reputation for security  and stability in the life insurance industry.  But at  Transamerica, life insurance is just the tip of the Pyramid. We  also offer non-qualified, tax-deferred annuities, and pension  and retirement plans for individuals and businesses of all  sizes. Plus we're one of the largest IRA providers in the  insurance industry.  So if you're thinking about the best way to protect your family,  and you're ready to start planning for the future, call the pro  from Transamerica.  Mark J. :Sapolin, CLU, ChFC l  .  General Agent  6757 Academy :\"E  :  Albuquerque, XM 87109  TRANS. AMERICA  505-821-mo  s" LIFE COMPANIES  1-800-288-1165  Transamerica Occidenrai Life Insurance Company  FAX: 505-821-7203  Transamerica Life Insurance and Annuriy Company  THE POWER OF THE PYRAMID IS WORKING FOR YOU.n1  Page 14  Tregembo Takes Over  Helm Of Covenant  Support Committee  '  A covenant support policy that the  SHHA Board expects to provide a  consistent and effective long-term  approach to dealing with covenant  issues/violations was approved at the  January 1990 Board of Directors  meeting. Implementation of the policy  will be under the direction of Rod  Tregembo, Board member and newly  appointed Chair of the SHHA Covenant  Support Committee.  A summary of the policy• appears  below:  Covenant Control Philosophy  The resolution of covenant violations/  issues is most effectively • achieved  through an amicable one-on-one,  homeowner-to-homeowner, di.scussion.  Covenant Enforcement Procedures  Covenant violations that can not, or are  not, resolved in the above manner will be  handled according to the  1 following  procedures:  1. Letter from the Covenant Support  Chair notifying homeowner that he/ she  is in violation of the covenants.  2.  Failure to correct the violation  results in a follow-up letter 30, days later  regarding the need for immediate  correction of the covenant violation.  3. Cases of continued noncpmpliance  are brought to the attenti6n of the  appropriate government agencies who  have jurisdiction. The mat~er also is  reviewed by the Covenant Support  Committee for a decision regarding  possible legal action.  Legal Action:  1. In accordance with the Declaration  of Restrictions filed by the Sandia Peak  Tram Co. for each Sandfa Heights  subdivision, only a person owning  property in a subdivision ~an legally  prosecute for covenant violations within  that subdivision. The Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association, being a  nonprofit corporation which does not  own property in any subdivision, is  therefore excluded from serving as  plaintiff in any legal actions involving  covenant violations.  2. The Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association is willing to support  members of the association, both with  financial (dollar-for-dollar matching)  and manpower resources, in the legal  prosecution of covenant violations.  However, a homeowner, or group of  homeowners, in the affected subdivision  must serve as plaintiffs in the legal action.  3. The SHHA will lend its support to  the prosecution of covenant violations  based on these criteria:  - Severity of the violation.  - Inability to resolve the violation  by more conventional, and less  costly, methods.  - Potential for success.  -Availability of an eligible and  willing member of the SHHA  who will serve as a plaintiff in the  legal action. When necessary,  the Covenant Support  Committee will contact unit  residents to secure plaintiffs for  the legal action.  Homeowners who have covenant  questions or, possibly, violations in their  neighborhood (unit) that they are  interested in pursuing through legal  action should contact Rod Tregembo  (294-5222) or the SHHA office (275- 9112).  Wanted: Covenant  Support Representatives  As the first order of business, Rod is  seeking Covenant Support Representa- tives from each of the Sandia Heights  units where the Homeowners Associa- tion is in charge of covenant support  activities. Duties of the unit covenant  representatives would include the follow- ing:  1.  Check on complaints from  homeowners in their unit about covenant  violations.  2. Validate and report violations to  Covenant Support Chair for follow-up  letter(s) requesting compliance.  3. Perform follow-up inspections to  verify compliance.  4. Attend monthly meetings to discuss  covenant issues and violations.  5. Bring violations whose status has not  changed in 60 days to the attention of the  committee.  6. Aid the committee in deciding which  violations should be pursued through  legal action.  SHHA members have already volun- teered to serve as covenant representa- tives for the following units: Dave Sulli- van (Sandia Heights, Sandia Heights  North, Sandia Heights North-Unit 2);  Rod Tregembo (Sandia Heights South);  Sara Warford (South-Unit 11); Ed Bates  (South-Unit 17). Representatives are  needed for the following units in Sandia  Heights South: Units 2 through 6; Unit 7  (excluding Cedar Canyon); Units 8, 9, 10,  12, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 25, 27A, and 28A.  Covenant control is an extremely  important area of SHHA activities.  Please take the time to get involved and  help your Association preserve the  beauty and unique character of the  Sandia Heights community. Call Rod  Tregembo or the SHHA office.  •  Opera) ))  1Ji  Club ~ •  The Sandia Heights Opera Club  will be attending Opera Southwest's  performance of the Marriage of  Figaro on Sunday,Feb.18at 2:00 p.m.  in the Kimo Theater.  Before the performance, Mary  Syroid will be hosting a potluck  brunch at 11:00 a.m. in her home,  11108 Bobcat Place. Bring a main  dish, fruit, or bread to share with  fellow opera buffs.  ,  New club members are welcome.  Call Mary for more information at  299-8256.  ~.  Page 15  ,Non-Commercial Advertising  Ads in this section are published free and are accepted only from members of the Sandia Heights Homeo1mc1'S Association. Non-commercial ads  are lmmed to Se1rices (babysitting, house/pct sirring, yard carej; For Sale (secondhand household i1cms1; Los1/Fo1111d; and Wamed. Ads in 01hcr  catego1ies are accep1ed at the discrc1ion of the newsletter smff. Sen-ice ads 1i·ill run 1hro11gho1111he calendar year, unless canccl/ed by 1he ad1·crriser.  All other ads 11111s1 be renewed each issue. Call 275-9112 w rcnc1i· your ad.  Services  AAA BABY SITTER. house sitter. pet sitter.  Please call ::'v!ichelle ::'v!unson at 299-1400.  E:-..perienced. references.  BABY SITTER for children. pets. or plants.  fa.perienced. responsible ; v.ith  references.  Please call Elisabeth (Izzy) Brov.11 at 299-5560.  RELIABLE. RESPO:\SIBLE BABY SITTER.  .E:-..perienced with babies. Call :V1ary Richardson at  298-3770.  ZZZZ TERRIFIC TEE\"AGE TWOS0:\.1E  available for baby sitting bambinas. Call Pamela  (age 16) or :'\aomi (age 13) Havlen at 293-9253.  For Sale  Wanted  A:'\YO:\E FOR STRI:\G QCARTETSry  Advanced. experienced violist invites violinists  and cellists to join him for string quartets.  Interested players please call Peter Grego!)' at  296-8577.  BABY SITTER '.\cEDED? Call Jennifer or 1--------------------1  BRIDETOBE? :\ewparent? :'\ewcitizen'? Just  moved?  Having a 25th or 50th wedding  anniversary·? Welcome Wagon has a basket full  of useful gifts for you. Call Karrie at 275-3366.  Emily James. You·re bound to get a baby sitter  becauseyou·rereachingtwosittersatonce! Girls  are 14 and 15. We"ve both taken the Red Cross  baby sitting course and many others. Call us at  296-2582.  EXPERIE:'\CEb A:\'D RELL.\BLE baby sitter  and house sitter when you are out of town. I do  plants. mail. animals. walk dogs. and other odd  jobs. Call Karen Truesdell (age 13) at 293-5451.  EXPERIE:'\CED HOCSE A'\D A:'\I'.\1.AL  SITTER. Lisa Cole (age 27). Call 293-6751.  References available.  HOCSECARE SERVICE including house  plant watering: outside watering: mail and  newspaper. feeding cats. dogs. and fish (no  snakes). The prices vary depending on services.  fa.perienced. Call Todd Randall at 298-2695.  HO CSE SITTER will take care of your house.  plants. pets. kids. etc. while you·re out of town.  Responsible. reliable C:\''.\1 student and Sandia  Heights resident. References available. Contact  Erin at 275-0459.  HOUSESITII:'\G. College student. resident of  Sandia Heights. Reliable. references. Call Ann  Piasecki at 296-1342.  :'\EED A BABY SITTER? Call Jenny Fisher  (age 13) at 294-0264. faperienced and reliable!  Are you going out of town? I cai1 take care of your  pets and house.  '.\cED A:'\ EXPERIE:\CED BABY SITTER?  Call Jennifer Kosse (age 14) at 293-5096. Will  water plants. take care of dogs: take in mail. etc.  Have worked as counselor-in-training at the  YMCA.  PETLOVERA:'\D HO CSE KEEPER. Do you  need your pets walked and/ or fed each day? Call  on Jeff Fisher at 294-0264. Iv.ill also take care of  your house and yard while you·re away.  QLALITYKID CAREbycaringkids. We don·t  just baby sit. we entertain and help out. Just call  Jamie at 299-8803. Jennifer at 293-1409. Heidi at  292-0936. Stacy at 293-4901.  FCR.'\ITCRE FOR SALE.  Dinette set with  smoked glass table. black base. four black-based  S\•ivelchairs. verycontemporary 5350. Teak coffee  table v.ith wrought iron base 560. Rattan chair S60.  All in excellent condition. Call Brian at 275-1901.  Lost/Found  LOST CAT. Long-haired. grey. tiger-striped male.  Approx. 6 months old. :\o collar. Lou ::'v!ande 843- 9221.  I A'.\1 A :'\CRSE working day shift and looking  for a mother staying home with herown children  and willing to care for my 2yearold daughter. \1y  daughter also would like to make friends who will  go to Georgi·a 'O"Keefe School in a few years.  Please call Linda (evenings) at 298-9847.  PLEASE SA VE ALC::'v!I:\C'.\1 CA:'\S for Keith  and John Gallow. Call us and we will come by and  pick them up. Our phone number is 296-4959.  Thank you!  NEIGHBORHOOD COFFEES  Meet new neighbors, and see old friends. Mark your calendars now  and plan to attend. Please call your hostess so that she can plan accordingly!  Call Jane Stabler at 298-8525 if you would like to have a coffee,  or if you need a ride.  Wednesday, February 14, 10 a.m. -12 noon  at the home of Beth Stoll  9112 Lynx Loop  296-4504  Wednesday, March 14, 10 a.m. -12 noon  at the home of Beverly Olson  529 Roadrunner Lane  293-3143  Wednesday, April 18, 10 a.m. -12 noon  at the home of Miriam Friedman  347 Paintbrush Dr.  298-1869  Wednesday, May 9th, 10 a.m. -12 noon  at the home of Eileen Ryan  550 Black Bear Rd.  294-5830  Page 16  ~  Catholic Community  Design Remodeling is  Good Planning  •Additions • Kitchens • Bathrooms  884-8800  I  2426 Washington NE  License No. 21850!  i  .Sa...ll..d..La... -1/£.Lgh...tli.. -1/trtn..£.<rurll..£.t.~! fl~1i..tr~La...tL<rll..  SHHA - THE GRIT  P.O. BOX 20021  ALBUQUERQUE, NM 871.54-0021  Church  WELCOMES ALL  TO SUNDAY MASS  9:00 a.m., Io: 15 a.m. &  5:30 p.m.  12509 Hollywood N.E.  I Blk. West of Train way 011  Paseo Del Norte  For Information:  292-0539 Pat  BULK RATE  U.S. POSTAGE  PAID  Albuquerque, NM  PERMIT NO. 375  