THE  Volume 90  May 1990  Number2  SHHA To Hold Annual Members' Meeting/Elections  Want a voice in the activities and  accordance with the by-laws of the  priorities  of your  homeowner's  Association, one vote is permitted per  association? How about a say in how the  residence or property. However, no  funds are spent?  active member is entitled to cast more  Here's your annual opportunity to get  thanonevoteregardlessofthenumberof  actively involved in the decision-making  properties owned.  body of the Sandia Heights Homeowners  Board members are elected for three- Association.  The annual members'  yeartermsbyapluralityvoteoftheactive  meeting and elections to the SHHA  members who attend the annual meeting.  Board of Directors are scheduled for.,,,five directors are elected to the Board  Sat., June 2 at 10:00 a.m. in the Paseo de!  each year, and a director may seek re- Norte Fire Station, 11700 Paseo del  election when his/her term has expired.  Norte NE.  Officers of the Board -- consisting of a  The SHHA has a total of 15 members  President, Vice President, Secretary, and  on the Board of Directors who are  Treasurer-- are elected by the Directors  elected at-large from among the active  attheirfirstmeetingfollowingtheannual  members of the Association. All  members' meeting.  ·~  residents (homeowners, renters, vacant  Board members are required to attend  ~·- lot owners) whose membership dues are  monthly meetings of the Board of  paid to date are active members. In  Directors on the second Wednesday of  Roads Suffer Effects  of Weather and Progress  A drive in Sandia Heights provides  jolting proof that time, winter freezes,  spring rains, and gas line installations  have all left their mark on the  community's roads.  Recent information passed along to  Government Liaison Chair Rod Stewart  that funds were available for paving so- called "collector" streets in some County  neighborhoods left the committee hope- ful that there would be smooth driving  ahead. [Collector streets arc the main  arterial roads within a neighborhood into  which the smaller streets feed. Collector  streets in Sandia Heights include Juniper  Hill, San Rafael, Live Oak, Spring Creek,  and Tramway Lane.J  Thal hope was short-lived. A visit to  County Public Works revealed that the  1 ~ funds have already been allocated to the  South Valley.  Sandia Heights residents provide a  sizable portion of the County's tax base.  So it's not unreasonable to expect some  of those tax funds to go toward road  maintenance.  According to Cleve Matthews, Land  Operations Manager for the Sandia Peak  Tram Co., all of the roads in Sandia  Heights were constructed and subse- quently repaired by the Tram Co., start- ing with the development's inception in  1965 and continuing through January,  1988. Road maintenance functions -- includingrepair, street and traffic control  signs, weed control, and snow removal -- were transferred from the Tram Co. lo  the County between January, 1988 and  Sept em b.er, 1989. Since the transfer of re- sponsibilities, only a portion of Tramway  Lane has been re-paved at County ex- pcnse.  Continued on page 3  every month at 7:30 p.m. at the Paseo del  Norte Fire Station. Directors also are  expected to serve on one of the  Association's committees which are  established by resolution of the Board of  Directors.  Current committees are  Architectural Review, Communications,  Covenant Support, Direct Services,  Government Liaison, Legal, Parks and  Recreation, Recycling, Roads and  Safety.  If you, or someone you know, is  interested in serving our community in  this very important role, please contact  the SHHA office (275-9112) by May 25.  A brief summary of your personal/  professional background will be needed  so you can be appropriately introduced at  the annual meeting.  •  In this issue ...  Advertising Rates .................................. 4  Bridge Club ........................................... 7  Bulletin Board ....................................... 7  Construction ........................................ 10  CVFD#5 .............................................. .3  Directory ............................................... 8  Grit Circulation .................................... .4  Grit Deadline ........................................ 4  Letters ................................................... .3  Neighborhood Coffee ......................... 15  New Director ......................................... 8  Non-Commercial Ads ........................ 15  President's Message ............................. 2  Referral Program .................................. 8  Roads ..................................................... .l  SHHA Annual Meeting ....................... l  SHHA Board Meetings ....................... .2  Sister Cities .......................................... 12  View from Jack Rabbit Hill ................ 11  Wildflower Club .................................. 11  Wildlife Federation ............................. 11  Page2  The GRIT is the official  newsletter of the  SANDIA HEIGHTS  HOMEOWNERS  ASSOCIATION, INC.  P.O. Box 20021  Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021  EDITOR:  Sherry Lombana  14201 Encantado NE  Albuquerque, NM 87123  275-9112  PUBLISHER:  MICRODATA inc.  c/o Harry Criel  500 Marquette NW, Suite 220  Albuquerque, NM 87102  247-4011  Sandia Heights  Homeowners  Association  Board of Directors  Meetings  2nd Wednesday  of  Each Month  7:30 p.m.  Paseo del Norte  Fire Station  Everyone Welcome!  Message From The President  -- Ed Bates, '89-'90 SHHA President  Spring arrives with new strength, new vigor and new resources across New  Mexico and Sandia Heights. The natural vegetation is as green as it will ever be,  and fresh seedlings and flowers are planted. So too, do people and organizations  renew themselves this time of year, and the Homeowners Association is no  exception.  As the current Board experiences its annual changing of the executive  committee guard, I would like to express my gratitude to several of our  neighbors who have contributed time and energy to the enterprise of improving  the Sandia Heights community.  First, I would compliment the entire Board for its collective spirit of  cooperation this past year -- keeping "loving tensions" to a minimum as  differing opinions emerged and compromises were discovered. Each Board  member gave to all ofus through his/her energy, awareness, and participation.  Some have been placed in more demanding positions than others in their  exposure to risk-taking.  They have willingly accepted responsibility for  presenting a position at hearings and city/ county meetings; for ably confronting  builders and residents alike when architectural and covenant matters were  violated or in dispute; and for accepting assignments that possessed little  glamour or appeal. Their pay was nil and their contributions often went  unrecognized.  For all they have given to the Sandia Heights community, its Association, and  to me personally, I am especially indebted to the following Board members with  whom I've served:  * Andy Anderson. A steady influence all year long, he has set the standard  for a professional approach to maintaining fiscal accountability.  * Mike Cox, Bill Heflin, Brad Prince, and Ray Wood. For taking on multiple  assignments with good humor and enthusiastic competence.  * Jane and Bill Stabler. What remarkable and consistent support these two  people have provided; the Board would not have been the same without them.  * David Sullivan. A brief line cannot express the depth and breadth of this  man's creative and dynamic contribution to all phases of the Board's activity;  his leadership gave us focus, clarification, and purpose during a year in which  delayed changes and new challenges were confronted.  * Jack Wirtz and Roger Hoppe. Although Jack left the Board a couple of  months age, he gave much of his technical capability and personal stamina in  defense of architectural standards throughout Sandia Heights. Roger, too, has  given much of himself personally during the past several years toward the  amicable resolution of covenant violation concerns -- he is truly a peacemaker!  I also would like to recognize Cleve Matthews and Sherry Lombana. Though  not Association members or residents of Sandia Heights, these individuals have  contributed much to the improved structure and functioning of the Board, and  through those efforts to the continued well-being of all of us in Sandia Heights.  It is not always politic to recognize a few and fail to mention so many others  who also contributed so much. I take this risk knowing of others who, perhaps,  should be mentioned as well. Clearly, the Board could not have functioned  without them. The subjective listing above is presented as my way of personally  saying thanks to some very special people.  Finally, I would express a word of gratitude to all of the residents of Sandia  Heights. Thanks to the homeowners who exhibited forbearance when we con- fronted you for boats, trailers, fences, satellite dishes, house trim colors, and all  Continued on page 3  Gritty  Letters  o~  THE GRIT welcomes brief, original leuers conceming c111rent topics of imerest to Sandia Heights'  residems. Letters must include f11ll 11ame and signamre of the awhor, address, and telepl10ne number  (though these can be omiued from the primed copy, if requested). The Editor resen ·es the right to edit or  condense any letter. Send letters to: THE GRIT, J.1201 Encantado Rd. NE, Albuquerque, NM 871:!3.  0  n Thursday, January 19, our house  and its contents were destroyed by  fire. It was a windy and snowy day, but the  volunteers of District 5 Fire Department  ang the Red Cross were there  immediately to help. They stayed,  rescued our animals, and -- although  fighting a losing battle -- bravely  attempted to control the flames.  Since the fire, our neighbors on Rock  Ridge Dr., the Sandia Peak Tram Co.,  and other residents and acquaintances in  the surrounding area have rallied to help  us with clothing, furniture, food, and  other donations which have helped us  return to a semblance of normalcy until  we can re-establish our home.  We wish to publicly thank these  wonderful people for their thoughtful,  kind gestures. It is a comfort to know that  there are those who care and are willing  to help in such a disaster. You make the  term "neighbor" real.  Betty & Wal~v Wendell  From The Desk Of Chief 5  SMOKE DETECTORS  I frequently receive telephone . calls  asking me what type of smoke detector I  recommend -- all electric or battery  operated.  A combination 120 volt  electric with 9 volt battery back-up  provides the most reliable service in case  of power failure.  Regardless of the type of smoke  detector you currently have in your home,  the important question is, "When was the  last time your detector was checked out?"  I am willing to bet that many of you would  have to answer, "Never!"  I recommend that you make it a point  this week to ensure that your home's  smoke detector is operating properly.  Follow the manufacturer's instructions  for testing.  If the detector fails to  function as it should, replace it  immediately. If you have a battery  operated detector, the battery should be  tested/replaced on a regular basis.  THOSE UGLY FIRE HYDRANTS!  Every year a number of Sandia Heights  residents plant trees, flowers, and shrubs  -- as well as using other inventive  methods -- to hide the ugly yellow fire  hydrants on their property.  I will be the first to agree with you. Fire  hydrants are not pretty; that is, unless  your home, or your neighbor's, is on fire.  Time spent searching for a fire hydrant  can make a significant difference in loss  of property or, possibly, lives.  A County ordinance requires that fire  hydrants be kept clearly visible and free  of all obstructions within a six foot (6')  radius around the hydrant. If the fire  hydrant on your property is obscured or  hidden, please do yourself and your  neighbors a favor and clear the area  around the hydrant for easy visibility and  access by the fire department.  Clark "Spar/de" Speakman  Fire Chief, CVFD District #5  Page 3  Roads  Continued from page 1  "While the County has received a  considerable amount of tax money from  Sandia Heights over the past 23 years,"  Cleve said, "road maintenance has been  minimal."  'The squeaky wheel rule applies here,''  said Rod. "The Association has already  pointed out the need for road mainte- nance within Sandia Heights and ex- pressed its displeasure on behalf of our  community. Individual residents can  have a much greater impact by contact- ing elected officials and letting them  know their constituents have noted the  drain of tax funds away from Sandia  Heights."  Both the County and State play a role  in the allocation of funds for road main- tenance projects. The names, addresses,  and phone numbers of our representa- tives are listed below:  County Commissioner (District 4)  Pat Cassidy  One Civic Plaza  Albuquerque, NM 87102  768-4217  State Representative (District 31)  Stuart Hill  12715 Hugh Graham NE  Albuquerque, NM 87111  298-3095  State Senator (District 21)  Victor Marshall  Rodey, Dickason, Sloan, Akin & Robb  20 First Plaza, Suite 700  Albuquerque, NM 87102  765-5900  •  President's Message  Continued from page 2  the other confusing covenant concerns  that present such love/hate dilemmas for  us all. Thanks for the opportunities to  know many of you, to learn and grow from  many of you, and to participate these past  three years in truly the premier commu- nity in all of New Mexico.  •  Page4  "THE GRIT 11  ADVERTISING RATES  - :;::::::~:~:~:::~:::::=::::~::::::::::::::::~:::::$:::~  '.'Jon-commercial ads (baby sitting. house sitting. etc.) FREE  to members of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association.  Business card size - $35 per three (3) issues  Commercial ads - minimum of $35 per 1/4 page  ($65 per half-page. $125 per full-page)  ALL ADS MUST BE CA\1ERA-READY A!\"D CORRECTLY SIZED*  PAYME'.'.'T Mt;ST ACCOMPAl\-Y ALL COM:vt:ERCIALADS  •Advertising Artwork and Layout Se:tV;ce Available - Call 24 7-4011  Another reason to get  Invisible Fencing.  Want to give your dog freedom, and safety too? Then call  the number below for free information on Invisible Fencing.'  Ten years and tens of thousands of dogs stand behind  Invisible Fencing. It's veterinarian approved and recom- mended as completely harmless and humane. And it  comes with a money-back guarantee.  Because you can't see it, Invisible Fencing maintains the  beauty of your property. It costs less than conventional  fencing. And if you move, it can move with you.  To learn all the other reasons to get Invisible Fencing, call:  INVISIBLE FENCING  The Fence That Makes Sense  Call 265-4007 for more Information  Eal  INVISIBLE~  Deadline for the  August  11Grit 11  The deadline for submitting ads or  articles for the August GRIT is Monday,  July 16, 1990. Please submit all materials  to Sherry Lombana, 14201 Encantado  NE, Albuquerque, NM 87123, 275-9112.  11Grit 11 Circulation  This issue of T71e Grit was mailed to  1087 members of the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association.  SHHA  Annual  Meeting  Saturday, June 2, 1990  10:00 a.m.  Paseo del Norte Fire Station  11700 Paseo del Norte NE  All active SHHA members ( mem- bership dues paid to date) are  invited to attend and to cast their  votes. Nominations will be ac- cepted in advance and from the  floor to fill five vacancies on the  Board of Directors. Reports/up- dates on all Association activities  will be provided.  Please plan to attend!  BALLDT Bax  STATE FARM  INSURANCE  <!l  STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES  HOME OFFICES  BLOOMINGTON, ILLINOIS  John N. Gabaldon  Agent  12700 San Rafael N.E., Suite 6-C  North of Academy on Tramway  Albuquerque, New Mexico 87122  Bus. (505) 293-9300  Res. (505) 275-2636  FIREWOOD - FIREWOOD - FIREWOOD  Serving Sandia Heights  for IO Years  Delivered and Stacked  Call Doug Fischer  Ranch Phone 1-773-4733  - ~  -- - - HllllO 100  JANE R. HEAD  Associate Broker  GAi  Office (505) 828-1000  Residence (505) 275-0802  7007 Wyoming Blvd .• N.E. Building C Albuquerque. New Mexico B7109  "Your Plans or mine? ..  MAGNUM HOMES  Lie. 16428  New Homes. Additions.  Remodel. RePair.  Garal!es. Hot Tubs & More  Flat Bid or Cost Plus  DAVE WERNICKE. Owner  Page 5  Picture It Framecf  (FORMERLY FOLGER'S FRAME-IT)  JOHN & EVY WOODS  ELDORADO SQUARE #9  I 1 200 MONTGOMERY NE  LOUISIANA PLAZA 8-8  7200 MONTGOMERY NE  ALBUQUERQUE. NM 871 1 1  ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87109  (505) 298-6697  (505) 883-8966  Sandia Heights Resident  BILL YE GAMSBY  Realtor  m.  11000 SPAIN NE, SUITE B  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87111  Bus. (505) 292-4455 Res. (505) 298-2189  Pager 768-8208  GONZALES & WRITTENBERRY  CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS  2308 EUBANK N.E.  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87112  JAMES M. WRITTENBERRY  505/293·21 50  GUITAR INSTRUCTION  Specializing in Beginners & Intermediates  - 15 Years Experience - BOB KORMAN  1924 Quail Run Dr. NE  Sandia Heights  Call  292-3666  Page6  ( 505) 296-3188  ( 505) 296-5552  ...._J~1-rfrine  ~~  Cf. '.}91  -'nc.  Joe Santangelo  257 Juan Tabo. N.E.  License No. 10020  Albuquerque. New Mexico 87123  VISA and MasterCharge accepted  FRAN COGEN  ASSOCIATE BROKER  • H 0 ME 298-8990  A specialized program  of music enjoyment for pre- school children!  Call Nancy  Johns, 299-0963, for more  information!!  (505) 256-3648  Victoria Tietje  • AMTA Certified Massage Th<'rapist  • Looyen work - deep tissue therapy  •light Force Spirulina distributor  3415 Silver, SE  Albuquerque, NM 87106  CLEANING  REASONABLE RATES AND THOROUGH,  PERSONALIZED SERVICE.  SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.  FOR ESTIMATE, CALL CINDA, 293-3960  (505) 299-0963  Nancy Eckert Johns  Music Instructor - Piano Specialist  1823 Tramway Terrace Loop NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  I II II  LYNN SHAW, R.N.  •  Bacteriostatic Water Systems  Residential & light Commercial units  "Water the way it used to be"  1161 Laurel Loop N. E.  Albuquerque, N.M. 87122  50 5-294-4 741  Independent Distributor  GRACE LUTHERAN CHURCH  " ... you will find me, when you seek me with  your whole heart." ( Jer. 29:13)  Sunday Worship:  9:30  Sunday School:  10:45  (Nursery Available)  On Eubank  Just South of Paseo del Norte  (823-9100)  Page 7  =---= = -- =  --=-- = =- =  ---- - ---- -- - BOARD  •  A new 148-acre residential development, on the west side ofTennyson adjoining Sandia Heights, has been proposed  by S & S Associates. The developer is requesting a special use permit for a planned residential development  consisting of 418 lots. Concerns about the development primarily center around the proposed density (dwelling  units per acre), the two-story home designs, and the street lights. If you want more information about this proposed  new development, call the SHHA office at 275-9112 and leave your name and address. Information will be mailed  to you.  Ill  A number of Sandia Heights residents have complained about the litter problem created by the bags of advertising  information that are distributed on a weekly basis (frequently hanging from, or left in the general vicinity of, your  mail box) by several different direct marketing companies. The homeowners association has been informed that  one of the companies, The Door Store, is very responsive to requests to stop delivering the material. If you no longer  wish to receive information from The Door Store (their name and number are printed on their bags), simply call  345-1600-and ask them to stop delivering to your address. Efforts to find out the source of other direct marketing  "bag" distributors have not been too successful. Persons with information should contact the SHHA office. If you  do wish to receive this advertising, please retrieve it quickly so it doesn't blow into your neighbor's yard.  •  While on the topic oflitter, the Mile High Optimist Club is not just talking about the problem. They are taking some  measures to become part of the solution. The club has adopted a portion of Tramway Blvd. to clean-up at regular  intervals during the year. The Optimists will pick up trash along the roadway from San Rafael to the turn-off into  Juan Tabo Canyon. You can help to make this volunteer project more successful by controlling your litter -- and  by joining the Optimist Club. Call SHHA Board member Bill Stabler for more information (298-8525).  •  Planning has begun for the annual November SHHA Holiday Crafts Bazaar -- a showing and sale of items by Sandia  Heights' artists, craftsmen, stitchers, and bakers. Proceeds from the bazaar benefit our volunteer fire department.  Call Lucy Russell (294-3583) for more information. Mark your calendar for the bazaar's first organizational  meeting on Wednesday, August 29, 1990 at the Russell's on 618 Cedar Hill Rd.  •  A reminder from Sandia Heights Services: All brush and weeds collected during annual spring clean-up activities  in your yard should be boxed, bagged, or bundl.ed for refuse pick up. There will be no trash collection on Monday,  May 28 or Wednesday, July 4. Refuse will be collected on the days immediately following these two holidays.  •  The Association's Board of Directors has recently received complaints from members regarding propane prices  and service. As a result of these complaints, Board Member Brad Prince is compiling both data and comments from  members for a future report in the GRIT. If you are interested in contributing your own experiences with propane  companies to this report, please contact Brad at 275-9824.  ttDropthat  broom and join  us for brid ger'  SANDIA HEIGHTS BRIDGE CLUB  Ladies Daytime Bridge  3rd Monday  4th Wednesday  2nd Thursday  2nd Friday  Couples Evening Bridge  1st Saturday  2nd Saturday  4th Saturday  1st Monday  3rd Wednesday  ·~  ++  There are new groups forming each week; if you would like to play in any  group or join a new group, call Sara Warford at 293-4367.  Page8  SHHA To Publish Directory  The Homeowners Association will be publishing the 1990-1991 Sandia Heights  Directory in early July. The Directory will be distributed, free of charge, to all SHHA  members.  The information to be contained in the Directory is shown on the mailing label of  this issue of the Grit. Please take a moment to look at your mailing label and verify  that the information is correct. Any, changes or corrections should be sent to SHHA,  14201 Encantado NE, Albuquerque, NM 87123, no later than May 31, 1990.  ASTERISK INDICATES SHHA MEMBER  PHONE XC:'v1BER  PH 296-0000  SMITH, JOHN & MARY  123 TRAMWAY LANE NE  ALBUQUERQUE, NM  87122  Board: Welcomes  New Director  "We moved into Sandia Heights for the  same reasons so many of the residents  here did," says Lenora Austin," ... peace,  tranquility, and quality of life."  Lenora, the newest member of the  SHHA Board of Directors, became in- volved in the Homeowners Association  through the activities of the Government  Liaison Committee.  "When I found out about the commer- cial zoning request for the corner of San  Bernadina and Tramway Rd., I was really  concerned that the reasons why we had  selected this community were being  threatened. It was then I decided to get  personally involved."  Besides serving on the Board, Lenora  continues to work with other members of  the Government Liaison Committee to  stay abreast of activities at the County  level -- including the County Commis- sion, Planning Commission, and Parks  and Recreation.  Lenora has a B.S. in physical education  with a minor in Spanish and a masters  degree in exercise physiology. She taught  Spanish and physical education for over  six years and is currently working as full- time Mom for 2 1/2 year old son, Wil- liam. Lenora and her husband, Larry-- a  manager with Shearson, Lehman, Hut- ton, Inc. -- came to Albuquerque from  Tucson and moved into their Sandia  Heights home on Halloween, 1988.  Keep Those Rating  Forms Comin' In  It's Spring clean-up and fix-up time - time to give serious thought not only to  utilizing but also to contributing to the  Sandia Heights Homeowners Associa- tion Service Referral Program.  Thanks to a number of community- minded members, the referral file now  has a total of 33 rating forms on contrac- tors in the following service categories:  *Air Conditioning/Heating  *Appliance Repair  *Cabinet Work  *Building Contractors  '~Carpenters  *Carpet Cleaning  *Chimney Cleaning  *Concrete  *Drywall Repair  *Electricians  *Exterminators  '~Garage Door Opener Service  '~General Handyman  *Glass  *Landscaping  *Maid Service  *Painting  *Plumbers  *Roofing  *Septic Tank Installation/Service  '''Stucco Work  *Window Coverings/Tinting  While there has been a great deal of  interest among Association members  regarding ratings on various contractors  and service providers, some service cate- gories still have no rating forms; many  categories have only one or two. Please  take the time to fill out a form and return  it to the SHHA office, 14201 Encantado  Rd. NE, Albuquerque 87123. Copies of  the form and information about the re- ferral service can be obtained by calling  the office (275-9112).  Support Your GRIT Advertisers  R  E  p  u  B  L  c  A  N  SA N D ,f A  HEIGHTS RESIDENT  ·companies looking to relocate to New Mexico don't want states  with simply a good climate, they want states  with a good BUSINESS cl/mate:  Page 9  ·Regarding crime, I support solutions Including  the ·boot camp· style of Incarceration for  minors and first-time offenders, harsher penalt/e-s  for DWI offenders and remuneration for victims."  • ••• we must all take an active role In solving  our environmental crisis, and we must have dedicated  and accountable leadership In guiding our communities:  Paid for by UKlp Nlce[y for State Legislator·, Pete Alexander, Treasurer  Page 10  Spring Showers, May Flowers, And Construction  Spring not only brings showers and  flowers but also an increase in home  construction, renovations, and improve- ments.  '  NEW HOUSING STARTS  Plans recently were submitted and  approved for new home construction at  the following addresses. Construction at  these locations has already started or will  begin in the near future:  330 Paintbrush (Unit 3-South)  Parkwest Construction, Inc.  292-9758  366 Juniper Hill Rd. (Unit 3-South)  Norwood Construction Co.  293-3802  220 Spring Creek Ln. (Unit 2-North)  Greg Baczek, General Contractor  255-0397  215 Spring Creek PI. (Unit 2-North)  Foy Curry, General Contractor  296-8502  143 Big Horn Ridge Ct.  (Unit 2-South)  Lewton Construction Co.  883-0073  Plans have been submitted and cur- rently are under review for new home  construction at the following address:  2808 Tramway Circle  (Unit 28A-South)  Eagle Crest Construction  888-0234  As part of the plan approval process,  contractors are requested to have a trash  receptacle on site to keep the building site  free of litter. In addition, contractors are  responsible for insuring that there is no  driving, parking, or other encroachment  on adjoining lots during construction and  for completely clearing the site of con- struction materials and debris within 30  days after completion of construction.All  homes must be completed according to  the approved set of plans within 12  months after the start of construction.  ADDITIONS, RENOVATIONS,  IMPROVEMENTS  Spring also is a particularly appropri- ate time of the year to remind homeown- ers, renters, and contractors regarding  the provision in the Sandia Heights Dec- laration of Restrictions requiring sub- mission of plans to the Architectural  Review Committee for review and ap- proval.  " ... no structure or improvement of any  kind shall be erected, altered, placed or  maintained upon any lot unless and  until the final plans, elevations and  specifications therefor have received  written approval ... "  Continued on page 13  An Important Harvest  We were admiring a street of beauti- fully restored colonial buildings in the  lovely city of Queretaro when a woman  stopped us. She wanted to be sure that we  went to see "her" convent. We thanked  her and did so. It was a memorable visit.  The beautiful Convento de· Ia· Santa  Cruz, one of the largest monasteries in  Mexico, still serves as a very active school  and seminary. What fortunate students  study in such a graceful and historic  building! Fray Junipero Serra made this  convent his starting place when he set off  to found the long string of missions as the  Spanish settled northern Mexico and  California. Poor Maxmillian was impris- oned here.  We were charmed by the architecture,  but the roof particularly caught our atten- tion. The young seminarian guide ex- plained that these roof-top channels took  rainwater to the cistern that watered the  orchard. Since it is a huge building (as  many as 200 monks could live there),  many gallons of water are gathered in  each rainstorm, and the orchard still  flourishes.  The practice of harvesting the water  from buildings and pavements is as old as  cities but seems to have gone into decline  in much of American building of today.  However, people who have made a study  of the water needs of our country have  begun to remind people that this is an  important water resource for our South- western climate. Some new names (xer- iscape, permaculture, and others) have  been applied to old ideas. The idea is  simple: Catch the water that falls, and  store it in the soil.  In this year's Plants of the Southwest  catalog, it's calculated this way for their  Page 11  THE VIEW FROM TACKRABBIT HILL  house of approximately 1200 sq. ft.:  "With our average annual rainfall of 1  foot, here's the calculation -- 1200 sq. ft.  (172,800 sq. in.) X 1 ft. (12 in.) =  2,073,600 cu. in.; divided by the cubic  inches in 1 gallon (231) = 8977 gallons,  our annual roof yield." One sensitive  developer on the "west side" has devel- oped his large project (92 condos on 29  acres) to retain roof and pavement runoff  into a system of ponds, and says he has  been able to raise the normal 8 inches of  rainfall to the equivalent of about 80  inches. If homeowners could do as well in  a drought year, this would make a tre- mendous difference in the survival rate of  their plants.  Because a lot of our rains here come in  heavy downpours, we may want to find  ways to store some of that water. Cis- terns, catch basins, even plastic garbage  cans under the downspouts can save  . many gallons. These practices were  common in our parents' time before we  got used to every house having unlimited  "water on demand" from the tap. Re- member whert every house had a rain  SANDIA HEIGHT~  WILDFLOWER  .;::,  '7  CLUB  ·--r,  Flowering plants and grasses suitable  for planting in the yards and gardens of  Sandia Heights was the topic of a presen- tation by Bryce Romig, seedsman with  Plants of the Southwest in Santa Fe, at the  April Wildflower Club meeting.  The second annual Sandia Heights  garden tour is scheduled for Saturday,  June 2 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.  Don't miss this opportunity to see  some of our community's most interest- ing and successful gardens. Tour maps  and coffee will be available at 939 Bobcat.  For more information on the garden  tour or other garden club activities,  please call Mary Colton (294-5510) or  Bev Grady (275-0798).  barrel? They still are common on many  dry-land farms, but American urban  dwellers may need to be reminded of  them.  We also need to SLOW THAT WA- TER DOWN. How? We can contour  our slopes to let water soak in, ratherthan  run straight down and erode the slope. (I  have a sense of deja vu. Is there anyone  else around who recalls the days when the  AAA didn't mean the Automobile Asso- ciation but rather the Agricultural Ad- justment Administration? The AAA was  pleading with American farmers to con- tour their land to cm;itrol erosion and  help keep it from blowing away in dust  storms. Did we transfer enough of that  thinking into our urban planning?) We  can divert water from driveways into  garden beds where it can soak in and do  some good instead of running down the  arroyos (and on to Texas?).  Let's start with the Sandias and con- sider some ways to harvest our water and  keep it here!! It may be our most impor- tant crop in the water-hungry Southwest.  -- Jean Heflin  Wildlife Federation  Certifies Hoppe Habitat  A natural wildlife habitat can be as  close as your own backyard, literally.  Ask Roger Hoppe, member of the  SHHA Board of Directo~s and wildlife  enthusiast, whose yard in Sandia Heights  was recently certified as a Wildlife Habi- tat by the National Wildlife Federation.  "I started out in 1986 with just one  feeder and some water," Roger says.  "Having come to Sandia Heights from  the city, I didn't anticipate the tremen- dous response that I would get from such  minimal effort."  Roger reports that the great initial  response and his own discovery about the  rewards of observing birds and other  wildlife provided the incentive to re- search and cultivate different types of  vegetation that would attract specific bird  species. "Lately, I've been cultivating  vegetation to attract hummingbirds."  Continued on page 14  Page 12  Sister Cities Brings World To Albuquerque  The Sister Cities program makes a  phrase like "the brotherhood of man"  come to life in a very real and personal  way through the promotion of cultural  sharing, economic development, and  social fellowship among people and na- tions.  Some 1,200 international delegates will  come to Albuquerque July 25-28 for the  1990 Annual Sister Cities International  (SCI) Conference. Rod Stewart, long- time participant on the SHHA Board and  President of the Albuquerque Sister Cit- ies Foundation, invites his fellow Sandia  Heights residents to get involved in this  valuable internatio!lal cultural and com- mercial exchange.  The conference is expected to attract  delegates to Albuquerque from through- out the U.S. and the world including  Australia, Japan, Republic of China,  Spain, Mexico, New Zealand, and the  Soviet Union. These international visi- tors not only will provide a boost to our  ~~~ BOOTEl'/STAHL,llC.  r~.....-REALTORSe~~~~~~~~~~  An award winning Realtor  ranking among the top 5%  nationally!  Over 13 years of experience!  Sandia Heights Resident!  OFFERS FREE BUYER OR  SELLER CONSULTATION  Business:  Home:  (505) 296-5591  (505) 292-1933  Maria Ratner  3 Good Reasons to Choose  Integrity * Experience * Success!  Computer  Software  Training  Training avai.lable for popular software packages.  rr DOS  rr Lotus 1-2-3  rr Ventura Publisher  rr CorelDraw  rr WordPerfect 5.0 or 5.1  rr dBASEIII+  ,.. Pagemaker for IBM  rr Intro to Computers  Specialized classes forthosewlw want to learn advanced  tedtniques.  Call - 298-5635  DeshkkJpPuliiihingdone kJ older  903 Tramway Lane NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  economy while they are here, but they  also are potential goodwill ambassadors,  investors, and new market sources for the  state's goods and services.  As host to this year's conference, the  Albuquerque Sister Cities Foundation  hopes to show attendees the best of eve- rything about our city and state. But our  needs are many, Rod reports, in the areas  of both manpower and money.  The foundation is looking for volun- teers to staff the Sister Cities office in the  old airport building-- starting now! Help  also is needed during the week of the  conference to greet delegates at the air- port, to assist with conference registra- tion at the Hilton Hotel, and to staff the  information booth at the Holiday Inn  Midtown.  Due to municipal funding austerity, the  Foundation also must raise $100,000 to  underwrite conference expenses. In  other words if you can't afford the time, a  monetary donation would be greatly  appreciated!  Persons who want to take advantage of  this exciting opportunity should contact  either Rod Stewart (345-8591 ), Volun- teer Coordinator Chris Loss (765-2205),  or the Sister Cities office (764-1504).  The Sister Cities Program began in  1956 as a creative force for international  cooperation and goodwill through com- munity action. Albuquerque's participa- tion in the program started in 1965 with  the Albuquerque Sister Cities Commit- tee. The Albuquerque Sister Cities Foun- dation was formed in 1983 as a non-profit  corporation to stimulate financial sup- port. The Foundation interacts with city  government through the Albuquerque  Sister City Board which serves to imple- ment the city ordinance requiring "the  promotion and encouragement of pri- vate and public programs to further the  development of greater friendship and  understanding between the people of  Albuquerque and cities of other na- tions."  Albuquerque currently has seven Sis- ter cities: Sasebo, Japan; Chihuahua and  Guadalajara, Mexico; Helmstedt, Fed- eral Republic of Germany; Hualien,  Taiwan, Republic of China; Gijon, Spain;  Ashkhabad, Turkmenia, USSR.  •  )  Page 13  Construction  Continued from page 11  All Units:  Walls/Fences -- $25  Satellite Discs/ Antennas -- $25  Swimming Pools -- $100  proved by the SHHA Architectural Re- view Committee. If you have questions  regarding construction going on in your  neighborhood, contact the office.  The Declaration of Restrictions per- mits the Architectural Review Commit- tee to charge a fee to cover expenses  incurred in the plan review, site inspec- tion, approval, and enforcement process.  A portion of the money paid to the com- mittee is set aside to assist individual  homeowners and groups of homeowners  who wish to pursue enforcement of the  covenants in their unit through litigation.  The SHHA Architectural Review  Committee has set the following fees for  plan review, site inspection, and the  approval process: .  ·  New Home Construction  $250 Fee -- Units 15, 25, 27, 28  $100 Fee --All Other Units  Home Additions:  $125 Fee -- Units 15, 25, 27, 28  $ 50 Fee -- All Other Units  Storage Sheds/Greenhouses -- $25  Solar Collectors/  Heating Equipment/  Cooling Equipment -- $50  Patios/Patio Covers/  Decks/Porches/Slabs -- $25  Landscaping -- No Charge  Basketball Backboards -- No Charge  To receive forms and instructions for  submitting plans to the Architectural  Review Committee for approval, please  contact the SHHA office at 275-9112.  The drop box for submission of plans is  located on the porch of the ~andia  Heights Services office (a dark brown,  wood-sided building on the south side of  Tramway Rd., just west of Juniper Hill).  The Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association office maintains a file on all  plans that have been submitted to and ap- lt's.1990!  Do You Know  Where Your Deed  Restrictions Are?  Don't panic!  Copies are available.  Send your name, address, and $1  to cover copying and postage  to the SHHA office,  14201 Encantado Rd. NE,  Albuquerque 87123.  Mark Napolin  The Secret of Youth  The pro from Transamerica.  Non-Surgical Face Lift  Dramatic Results  Anti-Aging  Nourish your skin with the ultimate skin care.  FOR MEN AND WOMEN  For more information and  FREE non-surgical face lift, call  Y melda De Vargas  A Transamerica general agent is a  professional. Someone who can help  you determine what you need to  protect your family. And help you plan  for the future.  Transamerica Life Companies has a reputation for security  and stability in the life insurance industry.  But at  Transamerica, life insurance is just the tip of the Pyramid. We  also offer non-qualified, tax-deferred annuities, and pension  and retirement plans for individuals and businesses of all  sizes. Plus we're one of the largest IRA providers in the  insurance industry.  So if you're thinking about the best way to protect your family,  and you're ready to start planning for the future, call the pro  from Transamerica.  6 757 Academy \"E  : 11  Albuquerque. \"'.\1 87109  RANSAMERJCA  II  294-0891  Mark J. \"apolin, cu;, ChFC l  General Agent  5os-821-mo  '" LIFE COMPANIES  1-800-288-1165  T ra nsa merica Occident a I Li (e Insurance Com p3ny  FAX: 505-821-7203  Tr.snsamenca Life lnsurance and Annur1y Company  THE POWER OF THE PYRAMID IS WORKING FOR YOW"  Page 14  Tutoring Services  by  Sandia Heights Resident  Trish Sandager  B.A., M.A. Education  293-3766  Math • Certified Reading Specialist  Celebrate  The Uniqueness of Sandia Heights!  T-Shirt design by Addy award-winning artist  Linda Tratechaud. Printed in teal (blue/green),  "Sandia Sunset" melon (rose/orange),  and black on a white Hanes T-Shirt.  T-shirts will be available for pick-up at the  SHHA Spring Fling on Monday, May 28.  Or call the SHHA office (275-9112) to  arrange for pick-up/delivery after May 28.  ORDER FORM: (Enclose check payable to SHHA)  City --------- State  Zip __  _  Children ($5 SHHA members:  $7 nonmembers)  _CJS(6-8)  _CJ M (10-12)  _CJ L (14-16)  Adults ($7 SHHA members:  $9 nonmembers)  _cs  _CJM  _CJL  _CJXL  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  Mail to:  SHHA. 14201 Encantado Rd. NE  I  L ______ Albuqu~~~M~~-----~  Wildlife Federation  Continued from page 11  .~  Since be began in 1986, Roger has observed 90 different kinds  of species of birds in his yard. Birds aren't the only wildlife  attracted to the Hoppe habitat. For the first time several  months ago, Roger observed a cacomistle (ring-tailed cat) in his  yard. This member of the raccoon family is a nocturnal animal  that feeds on small rodents.  The four key elements to take into consideration as you plan  your yard, Roger reports, are food, water, cover, and areas for  the wildlife to reproduce and raise young. "If you plan the vege- tation and layout carefully," Roger says, "not only can you  provide a habitat for the wildlife you want to attract, but you can  reduce your water usage in the process."  Roger recommends to people who are interested in creating  a wildlife habitat in their yard to write the National Wildlife  Federation, 1400 Sixteenth Street NW, Washington, D.C.  20036-2266, and ask for their pamphlet entitled "Backyard  Wildlife Habitat." A suggested reading list on the same topic  also is available upon request from the Wildlife Federation.  Once you have worked out a plan for your habitat, you can apply  for certification.  "Taking steps to attract wildlife to your yard, even something  as simple as putting in a bird feeder, is a great family activity,"  Roger says, "and the rewards are phenomenal."  •  C./Jurc./J of t./Je Good S./Jep./Jerd  United CfJurcfJ of C/Jrist  7833 Tramway Boulcvart4 NE  299-6482  Morning Worship - 10:30 am  Church School - 9:15 am  Easter Sunday  Sunrise - 7:00 am  Second Service - 10:30 am  Summer Service Hours (June-Sept 2) - 9:30 am  Preschool  Now Enrolling for Fall Classes - 3 and 4 year old Children  Mother's Day Out Tuesday, Thursday & Friday - 9:00 am to 3:00 pm  Call 299-1419 for more information on Children's  Outreach Programs.  }  Page 15  Non-Commercial Advertising  Ads in this section are published free and are accepted only from members of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association. Non-commercial ads  are limited to Serdces (babysitting, ho11se/pe1 sitting, yard care); For Sale (secondhand household items); Lost/Found; and Wanted. Ads in other  categories are accepted at tire discretion of the newsletter staff. Sen·ice ads will nm tlrroughol/t the calendar year, unless cancelled by the adl·erriser.  All other ads must be renewed each issue. Call 275-9112 to renew your ad.  Services  ;..."EED A BABY SITTER? Call Jenny Fisher (age  Wanted  13)at294-0264. Experienced and reliable! Are you  AAA BABY SITTER house sitter. pet sitter.  going out of town? I can take care of your pets and  BRIDETOBE? i-icwparent? New citizen? Just  house.  Please call Michelle Munson at 299-1400. Expe- mO\ICd? Having a 25th or 50th wcddinganniver- rienced. references.  l\'EED A:"J EXPERIE:'\CED BABY STITER?  sary? Welcome Wagon has a basket full of useful  Call Jennifer Kosse (age 14) at 293-5096. Will  gifts for you. Call Karrie at 275-3366.  ALL AROUJ\'D GOOD QUALITY WORK. I  do all sorts of odd jobs such as babysitting. house  water plants. take care of dogs. take in mail. etc.  DOG NAl°'ll"NY l'-<'EEDED! My standard poodle  sitting. yard work, pet care, etc. Call Marcus  Have worked as councilor-in-training at the  is having puppies soon. I need daytime care for  Aaron (age 13) at 298-3843.  YMCA.  her and her new family. Applicants must ~  ··dog experience:· I'm also looking for parttime  BABY SITIER for children. pets. or plants.  PET LOVER AND HOUSE KEEPER. Do you  housekeeping help. Call Maureen at 294-5249.  Experienced. responsible  with  references.  need your pets walked and/or fed each day? Call  I WAi'ffTO RENT a townhoU5C. apartment. cir  Please call Elisabeth (Izzy) Brown at 299-5560.  on Jeff Fisher at 294-0264. I will also take care of  house (preferably furnished and in Sandia  your house and yard while you're away.  Heights) for the months of July and August  BABY SITIER NEEDED? Call Jennifer or  (approx. timcframc). Call Nancy Hartman 275- Emily James. You're bound to get a babysitter  QUALITY KID CARE by caring kids. We don"t  8816.  because you're reaching two sitters at once! Girls  just baby sit. we entertain and help out. Just call  arc 14 and 15. Wc"ve both taken the Red Cross  Jamie at 299-8803. Jennifer at 293-1409. Heidi at  LOOKING FOR ·SECO!'ll'D M01HER" for a 4  baby sitting course and many others. Call us at  292-0936. Stacy at 2934901.  year old and 2 year old while their Mother is in  296-2582.  bed awaiting the birth of twins. Must be able to  RELIABLE. RESPONSIBLE BABY SITIER  drive and do household chores. as needed. For  DOUBLE •L" BABY SITfER,S. Lindsay Worth  Experienced with babies. CAii Mary Richardson  approximately July and August. References.  and Lindsay Bostick. Dependable. experienced  at 298-3770.  Contact Nancy Hartman 275-8816.  14yearolds. love kids of all ages. Lindsay Worth  at 298-6135 .. Lindsay Bostick at 299-0343.  PARTTIME TYPIST needed with experience  RESPOKSIBLE 16 YEAR OLD BOY seeks  on Apple Mcintosh Microsoft Word and Page- EXPERIENCED AND RELIABLE BABY  summerwork. Will babysit. house sit. care for pets.  maker. ;'\;umber of hours per month varies:  SITI'ER and house sitter when you are out of  mow lawns. etc. Call Jason Eisenberg at 292-3666.  schedule is flexible. Call Vivienne at 298-7624.  town. I do plants. animals. walk dogs. and other  PLEASE SA VEALUMJ:-..'l:M CA,'lS for Keith  jobs. and rm experienced with babies. Call  RESPO!'\SIBLE HOUSE SITIER. Will care for  Karen Truesdell (age 14) at 293-5451.  plants and animals. 18 years old. References avail- and John Gallow. Call us and we will come by and  able. Call Amy Steiner 298-2810.  pick them up. Our phone number is 296-4959.  EXPERIENCED BABY SITIERS. plant wa- Thank you!  tcrcrs. etc. Tamara Eyer. age 16. and Jamie Eyer. zzzz TERRIFIC TEENAGE TWOSOME  REGULAR BABY srrn~G JOB wanted for  age 14. Call 298-4288.  available for baby sitting bambinas. Call Pamela  the summer. Call Karen Truesdell (age 14) at  FREE MARII";'E SAFE1Y INSPECilON of  (age 16) or Naomi (age 13) Havlen at 293-9253.  293-5451.  your boat by the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary.  Call Bill Stabler at 298-8525.  NEIGHBORHOOD COFFEES  GOING our OF TOWl'i and need a house  Meet new neighbors and see old friends. Mark your calendars now and  sitter? Someone to pull your weeds? Mow your  plan to attend. Please call your hostess so that she can plan accordingly!  lawn? Take care of your dogs? Call Richard  Truesdell, age 12. at 293-5451 (reliable and car- Call Jane Stabler at 298-8525 if you would like to have a coffee,  ing).  or if you need a ride.  HOUSE SITI'ER will take care of your house.  Wednesday, June 20, 10 a.m. - 12 noon .  plants. pets. kids. etc. while you"re out of town.  Responsible. reliable U;\'M student and Sandia  at the home of Rab Freeman, 131 Big Horn Ridge Ct.  Heights resident. References available. Contact  2%-2977  Erin at 275-0459.  HOUSESrrnNG. College student. resident of  Wednesday, July 11, 10 a.m. - 12 noon  Sandia Heights. Reliable. references. Call Ann  at the home of Evelyn Nicely, 1190 Laurel Loop  Piasecki at 2%-1342.  292-5577  HOUSECARE SERVICE including house  plant watering: outside watering: mail and news- Wednesday, August 8, 10 a.m. - 12 noon  paper: feeding cats. dogs. and fish (no snakes).  at the home of Karen Raff, 1221 Rockrose Rd.  The prices vary depending on setvices. Experi- 294-2636  enced. Call Todd Randall at 298-2695.  Page 16  Design Remodeling is  Good Planning  • Additions • Kitchens • Bathrooms  884-8800  2426 Washington NE  License No~ 21850  SHHA - THE GRIT  P.O. BOX 20021  ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87154-0021  Catholic Community  Church  WELCOMES ALL  TO SUNDAY MASS  9:00 a.m., Io: 15 a.m. &  5:30 p.m.  12509 Hollywood N.E.  I Blk. West of Train way on  Paseo Del Norte  For Information:  292-0539 Pat  BULK RATE  U.S. POSTAGE  PAID  Albuquerque, NM  PERMIT NO. 375  _.,,  i·  