April 7, 1984  HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION NEMSLETTER Dear Sandia Heights Homeowners’ Association (SHILA) Member,  Enclosed you will find important information regarding the following:  May 5, 1984, "Meet the Candidates Meeting”  June 2, 1984, general SHHA Meeting/Election  Pro & Con arguments on the La Cueva/Rounds Est. @ ‘Traffic problems on Tramway Boulevard  Why pay for SHA?  New SHHA Committee Chairmen W.B.M. (BilD Jackson SHIA Treasurer's Report  ‘Community News & Ads  |. MEET-THE CANDIDATES  Please come and ask questions of our local candidates for public office.  TIME: {8:00 A.M. ~ 12:00 Noon PLACE: SANDIA HEIGHTS FIRE HOUSE DATE: SATURDAY MAY 5, 1984  MEET THE CANDIDATES SHHA BOARD OF DIRECTORS  If any resident is not yet registered to vote, call Pat Rozum, (286-3216) and she will bbe hapoy to perform this service for them. ‘The deadline Is April 24th If one wishes to vote in the June 5th Primary.  Ul, 1984 ANNUAL SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS! ASSOCIATION GENERAL (SBA ANNUAL SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ABBOCIATION GENERAL  ‘The 1984 annual SHHA Meoting will be held to vote on new SHHA by-laws which will increase the number of Board Directors from seven to fourteen oe sixteen, allow only due-paying members to vote, require automatic resignation for inactive’ board members, and clarify the SHMA non-profit status. The new by-laws will be sent to you in early May for your consideration.  ‘TIMES 9:00 A.M. ~ 1:00 AM F PLACE: — SANDIA HEIGHTS FIRE HOUSE 2 DATE: SATURDAY, JUNE 2, 19  SUBJECT: NEW BY-LAWS/ELECT NEW BOARD MEMBERS  If you cannot attend, please vote yes oF no on the by-laws by sending in the abventee ballot SHISH WIT eacloced with the We need a "yes" vote by the majority of the resident-owner members to make these changes to the by-laws,  ‘The major change being proposed is to increase the number of directors from seven to fourteen. SHHA has grown in number greatly since the original by-laws were written in 1973. We believe an expanded Board of Directors will help keep up with the demands of a langer community.  If we receive enough "yes" votes by ballot and at the meeting, we can proceed to elect Seven new board members plus four replacements for retiring oF resigning members.  Your present SHHA Board of Directors includes:  STATUS Wendland Beezhold, President resigns, June '84 Randy Williams, Vice President 2 more years Mary Ann Reed, Secretary term completed John Miller, Treasurer Ymore year Kathleen LeBeck 2 more years Anita Miller resigned 3/84 Stan Bazant term completed  Please send board member nominations to Wendland Beezholé, 329 Paintbrush, N.E., by May 15, 191  TI ‘THE LA CUEVA/ROUNDS ESTATE ISSUE (W. Beoxbold)  Your SHA Board met on 3/21/88 to discuss, among other items, the La Cueva/Rounds Estate issue, We decided that our board position would be neutral. We also decided {to attempt to present the pro and con arguments in summary newsletter form for those fof you who are not aware of what is being proposed.  ‘THE ISSUE - The Tram Company hes an option to buy the Rounds Estate (325-350, acres) which is located above the city's open space Duffer in the Sandia Mountain Foothills east of Indian Schoo! and Lomas Boulevard, N.E. A trade is being proposed. ‘The city would obtain the La Cueva land (160 acres) from the Forest Service and trade it to the Tram Company for the Rounds Estate. The city would then Include the Rounds Estate Innd as city open space and the Tram Company would develop the land.  ARGUMENTS AGAINST THE TRADE  Several organizations oppose the swap. A group organized as "Friends of La Cueva" have joined with the local branch of the Sierra Club and the Coalition of Albuquerque Neighborhoods in urging citizens to write Mayor Kinney to oppose the swap. Friends of La Cueva argue that La Cueva's unique natural resources could no longer be enjoyed by everyone. Further, they argue, developing La Cueva could lead to additional trades by the Forest Service of land within and beyond the Juan Tabo busin.  ‘The La Cueva itself is worth preserving by the Forest Service. ‘The property, which Includes approximately 160 acres, is located at the mouth of Juan Tabo Basin. La Cueva Is = part of the Citola National Forest; it Is bounded on the south by the Sandia Pueblo reservation and the east by a private in-holding. Le Cueva’s loamy soils support =  1 variety of trees and shrubs, including Pinyon Pine, One Seed Juniper, Threeleaf Sumac, land Chamisa. Gray Oak and Hop Trees are unique to the area. Further, the ares also provides primary habitat for the rare Sandia Hairstreak Callophyrs butterfly. Having recognized it as a key wildlife area, the Sangin Mountain Land Use Plan (USDA Forest Service, 1975) emphasized the need to protect its soll, water, and vegetative resources. In addition, La Cueve's easy access and gentle slopes offer special recreational ‘opportunities for senior citizens and the physically impaired.  SUMMARY OF ARGUEMENTS FOR THE TRADE  ‘The Tram Company can argue that the 325-350 acre Rounds Estate was actively for sale for 12 years, and during this time neither the city nor the Forest Service acquired the land. Any qualified developer could have purchased the land during this time period. ‘The land was acquired in the first place from the Forest Service in 1962.  The Forest Service, in 1975, declared the La Cueva area as surplus because it is an appendage, i.e. it is below land already developed as residential area. This La Cueva land could now of, in the future, be traded to anyone by the Forest Service for other land deemed to be more appropriate for open space or National Forest.  ‘The city, Forest Service, and Tram Company argue that it is better to develop La Cueva ihen the Rounds state which is surrounded by open space land. Hence, they argue, a trade makes sense.  ‘The Tram Company angues further, that It would: (LL) donate the trade residual, Rounds value less La Cueva value, in acres, to the city open space program; (2) create about Lacre-size lots; (3) protect the existing boundary lots in Sandia Heights by working with the owners; (4) sllow only very high quality single-resident homes with Improved restrictions comparable to other Sandia Heights development.  Finally, the Tram Company can argue that If they don't develop the La Cueva land it is very possible that another developer could eventually obtain the land from the Forest Service and build at a much higher density without regard to the rest of Sandia Heights or that the La Cueva Picnic Ground would be expanded dramatically creating 4 Serious liability for those current owners of property in the North.  YOUR CHOICE:  If you feel very strongly one way or the other on this Issue you need to act quickly since a decision to trade or not to trade will probably be made in May-June 1984, Several ‘organizations oppose the trade and you can join thelr efforts or write directly to the Mayor and the Forest Service. (The Friends of La Cueva Phone Number is 265-5500).  If you strongly favor the trade, you can make your wishes known by writing the Mayor and the Forest Service. ‘The Mayor's Phone Number Is 766-7550 and his address is Mayor Harry E. Kinney, P. O. Box 1293, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87103,  IV. TRAFFIC PROBLEMS ON TRAMWAY BOULEVARD (WW. 8. M. Jackson)  With the increasing residential, and the projected moderate commercial development In the Sandia Heights area and the tremendous increase in theu traffic on Tramway Boulevard due to its outside loop effect between 1-40 and 1-25; we wish at this time to request that you give serious thought to the consequences these developments are having relative to safety on Tramway Boulevard.  ‘As most of you use Tramway Boulevard quite frequently, you must be aware that in Its present state it is an extremely dangerous highway  ‘The planned extension of Tramway Boulevard as a limited access, divided highway, calls for completion in northerly direction only as far as Manitoba at this time. Just When this work will commence is not presently known. Any further extension beyond Manitcba up to the Sandia Pueblo boundary is something projected for the dim and distant future,  With the advent of additional housing in Sandia Heights, plus several planned Gevelopments by Sandis Peak Tramway Company in a corridor immediately west of ‘Tramway Boulevard in @ north/south direction, plus the upcoming completion of the new restaurant at the intersection of Tramway Boulevard and Tramway Rowdy you ‘can readily visualize the large amount of extra traffic that will be using Tramway Boulevard in both directions. Additionally, we will have North Albuquerque Acres traffic feeding into Tramway Houlevard via Tennyson, a designated collector street.  We urge you to consider the extra burden being thrust upon us as residents of Sandia Heights since we must use Tramway Boulevard as the main ertery for access to our places of business and shopping needs. Safety on Tramway Boulevard must be of concern tous.  ‘Tramway Boulevard has become @ race track and In its present form Is a mensce to us all, Some positive improvements must be put into effect NOW. We suggest that each and every one of you, without further delay, write to cur Mayor and City Council Members and our County Commissioners and demand that they face up to the urgency of this matter and remedy the situation forthwith.  V. WHY JOIN THE HOMEOWNERS! ASSOCIATION? (Kk. LEBECK)  Clearly, everyone in Sandia Heights has a rather large investment in the neighborhood, hamely, his and/or her home! tn light of that investment, 1 was wondering why there ist't practically unanimous financial support of the Homeowners’ Association. The ‘annual dues of $30.00 are such a tiny fraction of the investment involved in our homes that it Is shocking that the association Is supported by fewer than 30% of the homeowners. I thought that perhaps some of You are not familiar with what the Homeowners’ Association has done and is doing.  ‘The SHHA has been working to protect your investment in your home and in the quality of life of the neighborhood: SIMA ha® sot been capable of accomplishing, everything that all of us might like to see it accomplish. Part of the reason for this Is the relative apathy of such a large number of homeowners who don't pay dues or participate. We could accomplish a lot more if more of you would pay your dues and volunteer to work fon various projects. Volunteers allow us to accomplish s0 much more within our limited budget. Consider the following:  ‘The Homeowners! Association, via this newsletter uné through personal contacts, has tried to keep the neighborhood informed concerning those Issues which directly effect the Sandia Heights area. The nowsletter is expensive. It costs about $1,500.00 dollars per year for mailings. Many of you have called to thank us for information which we have provided through the newsletter and many have called to ask the Homeowners’ Association's assistance in dealing with various problems that arise in the community. Some of those who seek our assistance have never paid dues and are not members of the Homeowners Association. Clearly, without support from those people we cannot continue to mail out newsletters to everyone in the neighborhood. We have provided Information from everything from pet control to chimney fires and about such important topics as threatening zoning changes, county planning (or lack of it) for Tramway and covenant violations.  ‘Speaking of covenant violations, the Homeowners’ Association devotes # large percentage ‘of Its budget (about @ third)’ to dealing with and mailing out notices of covenant violations. On our Limited budget we cannot also provide attorneys to individual homeowners, but luckily once our neighbors have been advised that they are in violation, most of them respond immediately by taking corrective action. The cooperative aspect ‘of our covenant enforcement and our covenant notification to the cohesiveness of the neighborhood in both appearance a  Another significant part of our budget is devoted to snow and ice removal. Our  Contributions toward this end benefit the entire neighborhood, but again is being pala  ‘by a rather small percentage of the nelghboehood. Another portion of the budget  4 devoted to playground maintenance. Many of you have children who play on soccer  ‘and other sports teams and know how valuable it i to provide our chilaren with a place  {o play within the neighborhood so that we can evoid driving any more miles Up and  famway Boulevard. A neighborhood playground ie beneficial to those who. o>  ‘ot have children because it reduces the traffic on Tramway Boulevard and In the Ielghborhood and peovides a location for adult recreation.  Finally, the Sandia Heights Homeowners! Association has been active in recruiting ‘more volunteers to help carry out the important functions of lobbying and attending city and county meetings which have direct bearing upon our neighborhood.  For the future, we are proposing revision of our by-laws to broaden involvement in the Board by increasing Its membership. We hope to strengthen the assocation by attracting mote volunteers to undertake some of the important activities. We hope to do more lobbying and provide a forum for candidates for local election. We might  even plan a neighborhood street dance! Why not send your dues today so that_we can continue the work we've beon doing and expand for the future needs of the nel 0d.  ML W SHIA COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN W. B. M. (Bill) JACKSON (WV. Beezhold)  ‘The SHHA Board of Directors, in a January 7, 1884, meeting, formed a long-range planning committee, and named Bill Jackson as Chairman.  Bill Jackson has been working extremely hard for all of us since mid-January. He receives only travel and food expenses while working for the Board. ‘To date I have received ton separate reports from Bill. Information includes: (2) a report from J- Quintans, Senior Planner for the Middle Rio Grande Council of Governments of New Mexico (MRGCGNM) regarding future development of Tramway Boulevard; (2) reports ‘on public hearings of the Bemalillo Board of County Commissioners and the County Planning Commission; (3) reports from meetings with the city Transportation Department on development plans for Tramway Boulevard; and (4) reports from meetings with the city Planning Division.  It appears that only Governor Anaya has exenped Jackson's pursult In his efforts  + to assemble all the information possible to assist us in our SHHA long-range planning. A ‘complete report along with Bosrd recommendations should be available by mid-summer.  If you see Bill Jackzon, please thank him for his excellent work and ask him for ‘answers on Tramway development questions which you might have.  Vil. SHHA TREASURER'S REPORTS (J. Mille) MARCH 21, 1984 1. Cash on han (2/18/84) s Revenue 2. Expenses: We B. M. Jackson $66.09 b. Pile Box Bar Playground Maintenance 30.00 |. Administration fee 300.00 524.56 3. Cash on hana (3/2/84) $5,738.92  FEBRUARY 18, 1984  1. Cash on hané (7/84) S$ 7033.4 2. Expenses: 1 Mailing Labels $90.00 b. Copying 12.65 Administration Fee (Jan/Fet) 800.00 4, Playground Maintenance (dan/Peo) 300.00 992.66  3. Cash on hand (2/18/8:  ‘*  SIIIA “contracts” with the Tram Company for several administration services which, at present, include: (l) complete monthly Sandia Heights inspections of violations of the Declaration of Restrictions , (2) letters, discussions, follow ‘up on violations, and (3) SHHA typing and information service.  EXISTING SHIA STATEMENT OF PURPOSE  ‘The articles of Incorporation of Sandia Heights Homeowners’ Association include a ‘statement of purpose:  ‘The purpose of the Corporation shall be to provide for services, improvements, beautification and maintenance of the Sandis Heights residential areas to the persons residing in the Sandia Heights subdivisions and otherwise as provided in the by-laws.  With regard to services and maintenance, you should be aware that the association spends a substantial stim each years  Covenant monitoring 3600 Playground maintenance B00 Show removal 02 (to 2/20/84)  a ‘Tiusfar 284 property owners have peld dues. for the fiscal year ending 30 June 1984. ‘This points up that 284 persons are paying the bill for services and maintenance that all (950*) of us benefit from. 1 would like to suggest that each homeowner be mindful of these expenses being met by the association ‘and whether in favor of membership ‘oF not ~ consider that some level of contribution is warranted.  Vin, COMMUNITY NEWS AND ADS  ‘A, Occasional High Water Pressure ~ REMINDER ~ Sandia Peak Utility Company  ‘The pressure in the Sandia Heights Water System tends to fluctuate more than in larger systems,  It Is absolutely necessary thet a pressure reducing valve be installed on the main water feed line of every home in the area. Each of your home's plans were approved contingent fon installation of this important valve and while most bullders did Install the proper valve at the time of construction, some did not, if you have had pressure problems {you should consult a plumber about a pressure reducing valve.  SANDIA HEIGHTS SWIM TEAM NEWS  SANDIA HEIGHTS SWIM TEAM  SUMMER __swinMiNG ___PooL ‘Swim team is available only to SCHEDULE embers of the Four Seasons = the Four Seasons Monday thru Frida eb, Chieran ota peas EnIyBRESviR 1.0 to 200 am. exe. Monday) of age are eligible. The sui Swim Team 900 to :00 am (exe. Monday) cee ane we Lesions 1:00 to 1:00 ar. (exe. Monday) Interested in swimming! Join fault Sin Lage toes Om eae eee ete (every hour on the hour for 10 minutes) The nd ‘Great time! Open Swim 1200 to 7:00 pm. stim Lessons Lap Sim 100 to 8:00 pr (MLLW.E)** Contact Guy Seller at 289-0689 et ‘oF 645-6400 Ext. IS. Open Swim 00 to 0 am. Adult Sie 12:00 tol pm. ‘Open Swim  s*Tues & Th. 1200 to C. ADS RECEIVED  Conscientious, experienced, college senior, available for summer housesitting = call Terence Beezhold @ 296-6761  Wanted: Loving person to watch my three-monthrold baby, 2 days a week; my home or yours~ call Debble @ 292-5246  Ambitious teen-ager, dependable & conscientious. Desires any kind of Work, odd jobs ~ call Mike @ 294-0122  For the Homeowners’ Board of Directors.  WENDLAND BEEZHOLD BOARD PRESIDENT:  “wn ‘anduanbawiv ‘SBE "ON JUIN  iva ous CORK MAN “INDAADATTY  apvisod "s “AN "HSMM INV BE  Suva wing NOLLVIOOSSY SHANMOMNOH SIHDEIT VIGNVS  