THE GRIT |“ __  oa  < ea) ted Gctober, 1988 —- landiaWteights PLomeowners “Ek ssociation  ASSOCIATION OBJECTIVES POR 1984-85  ‘The stated purposes of the Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association are to promote the common interests and welfare of the homeowners of record located in the sandia Heights development of the County of Bernalillo, New Hexico.  means of furthering that purpose, a number of ob- jectives nave been decided uson for’tne 1984-85 asecclation year. In determining these objectives, the Executive Committee  attempted to draw upon the talents and interests of the enlarged soard of Directors, to become active in activities not heretofore undertaken but thought to be enhancements to the Sandia Heights environment and to recognize current concerns and conditions. Here is the list of objectives:  1, Achieve @ xininun membership of fifty percent by aprin i, 1985  2. Seek improved conditions on Tri stacking Ja angele  3. Publish « Resident oirectory containing nazes and  ‘Of all sandia Heights residents and dletritute to  ion nemters only Develop a plan for relieving Sandia Feak Tram Conpany of covenant sonitoring tasks ty dune 30,1985. (This relat fo the $300 monthly payment to’ Alvarado’ Realty Company)  5. Seek an informal agreement with the North Albuquerque Acres and North Glenwood Hills associations to collectively pursue projects of common interest in the north Tramway Zoule- Vard area, e.g. Tramway boulevard improvements.  6. Initiate ponsored events for the benefit of Sandia Heights residents, e.g. bicycle race for various age Groupe and a Christaas hone decoration contest.  ‘Expand upon the neighborhood coffee program as the nucleus of a welcoming progran for new residenta.  8. The association may administer and enforce covenants relating to the architecture and appearance of the developnent, and nay perform certain naintenance and care for the conaon Feas of the development.  Tasks may be undertaken during the year that would seem to Andicate additional objectives, but these are the formally de clared ones to which your association will direct ite primary attention and resources. The annual menbership meeting in une Includes a Report of the Fresideat. His report will deal Ltngely wlth Our degree ‘of mccees in attaining the above objectives.  way Boulevard, ‘and traffic control lights at Spain and’ Loa  AL@UQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO B7122 COUNTY COMMISSION CANDIDATES SUPFORT IMPROVEMENTS TO TRAKWAY BOULEVARD  Both Fat Cassidy and Don Fuchs, candidates for county conmissioner from the Sandia Heights district, support improve- ments to Tranway Eoulevard, according to their responses in discussions witn board members of the SHKA,  The discussions centered on a program of five specific steps for improvenents in traffic safety along Tramway Eoule- vard north of Wontgomery:  1, Add as soon as possible a street light, traffic light and left-turn lanes at Tramway Road, Los Angeles, spain, and  At is cut through to Tramway Boulevard, add the same equiprent at Acadeny Road.  road to the foothills park is installed, tly into Academy with no dog-leg at  Tramway Boulevard.  4. Conduct as soon as possible a thorough measurement of traffic on Tramway Boulevard.  5. start as soon as possible the planning (design and finane lei) required to expand Tramway Loulevard into S four-lane separated thoroughfare, with completion of the improvemente ‘targeted for 1987.  Recent incr in traffic along Tramway boulevard and anticipated future increases are the factors which justify the five improvements, according to the two commission candidat Between 1981 and i983, Tramway toulevard traffic has increased by over 100%, from 3100 vehicles per day to 7300. Continued grovth at thie pace will regult vy 1986087 in Tramway boulevard traffic at a density which justifies a four-lane road.  Ys. Cassidy and Mr. Fuchs are running against each other for the post on the Bernalillo County Commission which represents Sandia Heights. Their continued active interest in Tramway Eoulevard inprovenents would be bolstered by a large turn-out of voters at the Sandia Heights Firehouse on Election Day, November 6, 1984  RESTRICTION VIOLATIONS  Sandia Heights is continuing its rapid growth with over 1000 families now living in the community. Accompanying this growth  has been an increase in violations of the Declaration of Restric- tions which applies to every lot in sandia Heights. “the sajority of violations include the parking of boats, trailers and recrea.  tional vehicles in yards and driveways and’ the unapproved installa. tion of 1V antennas and  Flease renenber your le ponsibilities and your obilga- tion to your neighbors and the community and adhere to th restrictions. With your cooperation we will all gain with en- hanced property values and an esthetically pleasing community.  If you have any questions concerning the Declaration of Restrictions or require the approval of the installation of solar equipment, TV antennas, etc...-.please call Lorna Koeninger at 296-0736.  MEMBERSHIP  Wany thanks to those of you who have paid your 930 4 Some of you may have not re-  ceived the membership appeal letter. In my haste to get it to the post office, I missed a  page of labels, including names beginning with’G and H and a few L's and M's. Those letters are being mailed with thei newsletters; if you get two letters, don't throw then away without reading theat  Remember that those of you who pay the dues will re-  directory of sandia ighte residents. This direc- tory will be available in Jan uary and will include the names, addresses and phone nunters of all Sandia Heighters. ‘The due also include sending you the: newsletters, our primary means of communication. Farking per mits for the tram parking are for members of SHHA will be wvailable from Rat Freeman after Noventer 15th.  And, lastly, don't forget the neighborhood coffee, Frid 9 November at 10 a.m. at Rab’ house, 131 Big Horn Ridge Court. Call Rab at 296-2977 or Mufty Conrad at 294-8904 if you are planning to come.  GOOD NEIGHBOR TIES  Is your driveway a little longer than you planned it to be? Maybe that's because your gravel has eroded into the streets Erosions of this sort should be swept up by the owner and re- turned to the driveway. We do not have county street sweepers in Sandia Heients.  Do you put liquids such as paint and eotor oil in your trash cans or garbage bags? The trash trucks  a neighbor having indelibly marked with the drippings.  be you use high wattage, white lightbuibs in your outside lignt fixtures? If you do, and those fixtures are left on| period of time, the resultant glare detracts considerably from the night views. Consider using lower wattage, yellow bulbs.  ‘THANK YOU*THANK YOU*THANK YOU* ‘Thanks to Cub scout Den #11 for keeping our neightorhood park clean and for planting a new  tree there.  CHRISTWAS HOME DECORATION CONTEST  A number of residents have been in the habit of decorating  years now. Your  As  A means of doing eo, awards will be given for such efforts thie year. ‘There are a few rules:  1. Please indi n wrlting your wisn to participate and be judged. Address your note to the Sila Home Decoration Contest, FO Box 20021, Albuquerque, NK 67154-0021. Entries must be received by December 19, 198).  2. An appropriate judging group - not to include associa- tion directors - will review the homes of the entrants during the evening of December 24, 1964, between the hours of 7 pem- and 9 pom  3. Winners - tentatively a first, will be announced on December 26, 1984.  4, Significant prizes will be awarded.  5. Entrants must be association menbers.  yond and third prize = ser vant sat vant ee ski wart THE CATs Meow 5-Day MidWeek Ski Package for as = ¢ CREATIVE NEEDLEPOINT TeeMS St8.$86pee perbot®E ; rnp asda Cases i io tant Pesanvars cone Join your friands and netoh~ # bors from the Showdown Tennis Club = Hits and Needlepoint Accessories an our annual ski trip. We have ex-< Pintshing Service actly 10 openn ings left on this fab-3 Custom Designs Our Speciaity  arter Bus to vali for tive days (Open by Appointmen  of great. skiing and returning to  Aisuauerque, Friday night Feoruary This Tow, low price Inctudes  Foune trip transportation, locgingy  Tift ticrets ane more  For all the details of this trip, please call me.....Joan Granger at 299-8000. Act now, don't be left out.  MOTHERS* GROUP FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE PLAYGROUND  Recently sone attention has been focused on the inadequate playground facilities in Sandia Heights. Informal conversations anong a nunber of parents with young children in our community have revealed that it is often found preferable to take children Stable and attractive parks as much ao five or six It'woula seem unfortunate that this should be the in"n growing community oven as ours. As a result, a number of others have joined together to arch certain aspects of planning an imporved park at Juniper Road. There is no intention to change the current field je of the site, rather to increase and upgrade the existing Playground Tacklities.” “There are, proposals’ to provide nore age opiate equipnent, such as sefer swings, climbing frane and silde, and many would appreciate benches and shelter. because Of the question of Liability, it is coneldered advicatle to or- Ger equipmert at a competitive price from a reputable company, rather than to invite conmunity mesbers to carry out construction and installation personally.  ‘The SHEA Zoard and the Tram Company have offered support in proportion to community interest.  It is gubaitted that this should be seen as a worthy project from which many Sandia Heights families woud derive e direct benefit. cf course it cannot coze about without the financial  upport of the conmunity, and the sore households who can express such an interest, the easier it will be to spread the costs  the SHIA Board has been approached oy the afcrenentioned (EQUE tho are Interested in expanding the existing, playground to noguge facilities for preechosl childrens The following questionnaire is to determine if there 1s'a need within the community and how it should be financed. Your participation in showering the questionnaire would be apprecinteds Please return Nor 'SHIA, FO Bor 200e1+ Albuquerque, Rk B7ise-0021. thank’ Tout  Name, Address SHHA Member? —¥¢  No,  1. Do you believe there is a need for expanded playground facil- Aes for preschool children in Sandia Melente? » Yes. Xo,  2. How many children in your family? Age birth - 3 yrs  Ago 4 = 6 yee Age 7 ~ 10 yrs. 3. If expanded play facilities for preschool children were developed, how many days per week would your family use it?  0-1 days__, 2 - 3 days.  14-5 cays,  44. Jf expanded playground facilities for preschool children were developed, how should they be funded? ‘A. By a portion of SHHA dues B. B. Ly other sources of funding + volunteer group, b. individual monetary donations, + special fund raising projects ouch as raffles, barbeques, carnivals, etc. C. By a combination of SHHA’ due  ‘aHT Cther sources  5. Would you volunteer your tine and service to expand the play- Ground facllities for preschool children? Ye  6+ Any additional comments or questions:  other's Helper EAtysitter , Newsletter deadline for tne January wanted for Twin J 1985 Lssue is wednesday, January 9. Few afternoons a xsek and eee enn eee  possible evening work. References require. $2.00/nour. Sandia Heights South (Pinon ¥il1). Call Micheale 296-5957 Fetes eee weer e ees U,. comercial Sandia Heights Babysitting — * per ¢ Pea Coop now has mesbership + Submit to Judy Harris, 316 Big openings. Please contact Horn Ridge Road  Pegie foberts at 293-5447 *  or Marie Rundle at 299-7900 * WOTE NOV.6  Advertising policy:  Non-commercial ads (baby house sitters, situations ete.) £  i 3 E g 5  iva  ®& ‘SANDIA SONSHINE, INC. ‘Learning & Development Center ‘Number Two San Rafael 298-7775 WE CARE ABOUT YOUR CHILD'S HOTENTIAL Hignly Qualified instructors Very Low Instructor to student Ratiot *Pre-school & kindergarten ‘AN & EM Kindergartens *before 6 After sen *Extended Day, ‘ages 2 donths to 14 Years ‘sbrofeesiona ‘Clean spacious Bus Service  in addition to cur regular prograns we nave a child and family coun Specialist wno provid Our staff and familie Herce, a counselor in’ priva thee, provides the following sHlacenent Testing  sament “Intelligence Testing  Parent Consultation: “specialized Tutoring  1200-95 14 nésonbnaty 12002 xoR OF SMS aTHO SHy  ootxer may  7 pining > c08y A puts —  pare 4 tte: M4  i  Sadia Hae  5 Satie Hesles dye  { , Recker foritan t0 form  | atta Mie Statiai at  f the base of tee Asm  ee eee  ( were: (1-4 tine: /-4  ¢ ¢  S witha e+ accessories  Sas brirmer olf a zemebppme A 