SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  Dear Resident-Owner Member:  Please take notice that the annual meeting of the members of the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association will be held on Saturday, the 2nd day of June, 1984 at  9:00 AM at the Sandia Heights Firehouse, Albuquerque 87122.  The annual meeting is for the purpose of considering and adopting amendments to  the Association's Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, electing twelve directors  and such other matters which may come before the membership.  Present Bylaws require representation of resident-owners holding thirty percent  or more of the voting power for a quorum.  Each resident-owner is a member eligible  to vote and is entitled to one vote per dwelling unit.  Thus, approximately 270  resident-owners are needed to conduct the business of this or any other general  membership meeting.  As a practical matter, the members of your Board recognize that Sandia Heights  residents have not turned out in such a quantity in the memorable past.  It is  considered quite unlikely that the next annual meeting would alter that record.  Therefore, a different approach to polling on these issues has been developed.  Enclosed in this packet is a proxy form.  It is designed to permit you to cast  a dissenting vote on the issues to be taken up.  Should you not wish to dissent,  do not send the proxy.  Your silence will be considered assent.  This approach is employed as a convenience to the overwhelming majority of Sandia  Heights residents.  It is not intended to discourage attendance at the meeting.  Indeed, a large turnout would be most welcome.  Lastly, below are listed the names of neighbors who he.ve  consented to be nominated for Board of Director vacn.ncies.  Your Board recommends their election.  Harry Criel  Mary Conrad  Ray Churan  Lolita Ashe  l)eter Harrison  Cynthia Gorman  John Freernan  Rod Stewart  Harry Ottinger  Judy Harris  Jim Ra.ndall  Additional nomina.tions will be accepted during the annual  meeting.  J~JJ!~.~.·.  ·~ {~A  1Ve"k(lk.n~<13.,;ezh~\r f  President  May l7, l984  SUMMARY OF PROPOSED AMENDMENTS  Articles of Incorporation  1.  Amended purpose of Association - The purposes of the corporation are to  promote the common interests and welfare of the homeowners of record  located in the Sandia Hieghts development of the County of Bernalillo,  New Mexico, and to administer and enforce covenants relating to the  architecture and appearance of the development, as well as to perform  certain maintenance and care for common areas of the development.  2.  Restrictions - No part of the net earnings of the Corporation shall inure  to the benefit of, or be distributable to, its directors, trustees, officers,  or other private persons, except that the Corporation shall be authorized and  empowered to pay reasonable compensation for services rendered and property.  Notwithstanding any other provision of these articles, the Corporation shall  not carry on any activities not permitted to be carried on by a homeowners  association exempt from federal income tax under Section 528 of the Internal  Revenue Code of 1954 or the corresponding provision of any future United  States Internal Revenue law (hereinafter, the "Code").  Upon the dissolution of the corporation, the Board of Directors shall, after  paying or making provision for the payment of all of the liabilities of the  Corporation, dispose of all assets of the Corporation for the purposes of the  Corporation, or to one or more organizations which are exempt under Section  581-i'.tr---5-2-8--\Yf--the-C-otle-,---a-s-i:h-e-Buard-of-JJi--rt::ctors---shai-T-dernn1rirre:- ------ Bylaws  Bylaw amendments contain three major changes by proposing:  1.  Two membership categories - active and inactive.  Voting rights are held by  the active (dues paid) members.  2.  An increase in Board size from seven to fifteen.  Present Board size is too  small to accomplish the tasks that an organization of this size should be  engaged in and does not permit adequate representation of the present-day  Sandia Heights area.  3.  A procedure for replacing board members deemed unable to perform assigned  duties and a procedure for automatic resignation of any board member for  reason of excessive absences from meetings.  PROXY FOR ANNUAL MEETING OF MEMBERS  OF  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  TO BE HELD JUNE 2, 1984  I (we) appoint Wendland Beezhold, President, to represent me (us), on the matter  of Bylaws/Articles of Incorporation amendment which will come before the 1984  annual members meeting to be held on June 2, 19.84 at 9:00 AM at Sandia Heights  Firehouse, Albuquerque, New Mexico.  The proxy shall vote as specified below, or  where no choice is specified, shall vote againstproposals to amend the Articles  of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Association, and according to my proxy's best  judgment on all other matters.  I.  The Board of Directors recommends a vote FOR amendments to Articles of  Incorporation:  Amending the purpose clause and restrictive article relating  to distribution of assets of the Corporation.  NO  II.  The Board of Directors recommends a vote FOR amendments to the Bylaws of  the Corporation:  NO  Amending the Bylaws as submitted to the membership.  Please sign here as ownership records show:  Signature(s)  (Joint owners should sign separately.)  Name of Owner:  Address:  Date:  NOTE:  For your convenience, we will assume that no reply is a YES vote for  I and II above.  If you wish to vote NO, cast a NO vote hereon.  If  you are voting NO, please ensure that your proxy is returned by May  31, 1984 to this address:  Wendland Beezhold, President  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  Post Office Box 20021  Albuquerque, New Mexico  87154-0021  Again - if you wish to vote FOR the amendments, do NOT  return this proxy.  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  P.O. BOX 20021  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87154-0021  -------------------------- - --------~ --~---- ~ILLER, JOHN R•  54e BLACK BEAR RD  ~E  ALBUQUE~QUE  NM  87122  BULK RATE  U.S. POSTAGE  PAID  PERMIT NO. 375  ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.  