The SHHA has grown to over 1,500 homes covering a population of approximately 4,256. In the past year, key focal points were the water rate negotiation with the utility company and finalizing a new service contract with Alvarado Realty (ARCO). SHHA plans a restructuring to involve more residents while also exploring new developments like publishing a jogging map, pondering highway expansion plans, the Tramway and Paseo del Norte highway build out, and the wider consideration of services such as waste management programs. The association also thanked Board members Leonard DeLue, Judy Harris, and Rod Stewart for their contributions. Key projects also discussed include a delay in the Tramway Boulevard intersection project whilst Tramway Lane from Live Oak Road to Big Horn Ridge is repaved. The Lapidary Workshop seeks members for gem crafting and silver mounting. New members are welcomed for the Sandia Heights Book Club and the Sandia Heights Directory has been circulated to all association members for necessary amendments. The Forest Service has rerouted Trail 82 Tram (Tramway) Trail bypassing North Sandia Heights and plans are underway to introduce the ‘Misty Trail.' SHHA has also shared information about boating safety examination with the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary. Max Sanchez, one of Albuquerque's top real estate producers, is now residing in Sandia Heights. The new Sandia Presbyterian Church is inviting neighbors to join in its community. In addition, the Sandia Mountain Coalition, established in 1987, encourages open access to Sandia Mountain. The Wildflower Group shares gardening and planting techniques. Maintenance of the community park remains a priority. There's a comprehensive birdwatcher's checklist for the Sandia Mountains and details on the local flora and adaptability of junipers and pines to the local climate. Applications are being accepted for the position of Executive Assistant to the President of SHHA. Advertisements about the Santa Fe Glazed Ham & Deli have been made public along with neighborhood events, and services offered by members of the community. Classified advertisements for sitters, insurance salespersons, accommodation, and second hand items for sale were shared.