The SHHA is making park improvements including new playground equipment, aiming at better engaging younger park goers, while focusing significantly on covenant enforcement. This is due to increased concerns over unauthorized home additions, unscreened satellite dishes, unattended construction debris, and driveways consumed by campers and boats among other violations. The SHHA, beyond conflict resolution, is also actively involved in community activities such as recycling initiatives and hosts regular community events. The SHHA runs a community newsletter called The GRIT, used to announce community news and organize events. They recently held the 'Holiday Lights Contest' awarding the best festive light displays, which is judged by the Parks and Recreation Committee. The SHHA offers several exclusive benefits to members including a homeowners referral program, private reservation of the Sandia Heights Park, and eligibility for architectural plan review. The association is diligent in enforcing building covenants in order to maintain the visual appeal of the area. In addition, they also support composting and recycling, actively promoting organic waste management and encouraging practices like private compost piles. SHHA is a supportive partner of the Albuquerque Solid Waste Management's plan to repurpose organic waste into humus. The SHHA is concerned about the increasing interactions with the local bear population and encourages residents to exercise caution in their habitats. Also, the association is fostering community recycling programs and providing specifics on how to properly prepare different materials for recycling. They run a service directory where members can advertise different household services like carpet cleaning, home remodeling, and more. They also share educational pieces, such as in depth explorations into constellations, promoting community awareness on astronomy. The annual Spring Fling picnic, a range of child care and home maintenance services, and bridge club activities are some of the community wide services facilitated by the community members. In an effort to ensure the engagement and safety of the residents, the SHHA utilizes household management, safety inspection from the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, free entry for member families into community organized social events, and a multitude of business promotions that cater to the needs of the residents.