In 1986, SHHA embarked on new projects like a dues collection plan and initiated a survey to help decision making processes. Key actions included rescheduling the repainting of the Circle K. building, installing reflectors on Tramway Blvd, replacing one sided street signs, managing increased road usage, monitoring covenant adherence (particularly for solar installations), and welcoming Sara Warford to the hospitality department. The survey revealed interests in jogging, biking, natural gas introduction, activity groups, more snow plowing, adding GRIT editions, expanding the triathlon, home decoration contests, and the addition of Outpost arena. Future initiatives are dependent on interest and funding, with homeowners' dues expected to cover over 55% of the budget and additional funds being sought by membership committee drives. Improvements are also in the pipeline for parks and community activities, such as creation of a volleyball court. However, certain issues like road signage, stray animals, solicitation, road and pool repairs, and landscaping are handled by the county and Alvarado Realty. Ongoing lobbying efforts for street light improvements and road widening are encouraged, and residents can also post "no soliciting" signs. New neighbor integration is facilitated by newcomer coffees and the guard services are managed by Alvarado Realty. Covenant enforcement is being reinforced as per the President's Report and committed volunteers Carolyn Hudson, Lynne Uehnfiels, and Jon Freeman serve as essential community contacts. Full SHHA membership, noted by an asterisk next to the member's name, can be attained with a yearly $30 fee offering diverse benefits. Community efforts are underway to reduce winter bird collisions and dead birds can be donated to the Museum of Southwestern biology at UNM. Residents are also reminded to make their house numbers clearly visible for emergency services, ideally through purchasing reflective 4 6 inch letters. Informational meetings are held every second Wednesday of the month at the Fire Station, with all residents encouraged to attend.