WE GRIT ~ ~ - gxTRA!!®  28 Decenber 1987  Dear Property Owner,  You have been notified by the Sandia Fesk Utility Corporation of their desire to raise your water rates a minimum of 25.79%. As you have noted, users that. exceed 9000 gallons a month will Tneur additional costs. Since the Utility Corporation i regulated by the New Mexico Public Service Commission, it is necessary for thes to file a rate case which has alresdy occur= red.  Your Sandia Heights Homeowners Association hes been analyzing the ¢iling package which Is a matter of public record and is available at the Trammay office.  In an effort to explain this request for increase, the Utility Corporation is holding # meeting January 5, 1968 at'7 PM at the Holiday Inn Pyramid Hotel. Your Homeonners Association suggests that if you have an interest in this matter that you attend this mooting, as after the rate increase has been approved by the Commission, you will no longer be able to influence the rate structure.  On January 6, 1988 your Homeowners Association will conduct « meeting at the new fire station at 7 PM to determine your  rejection desires with regard to the Utility rate package, as well as to answer questions in Greater ceteil regarding’ the Homeowners Assn. survey of the Utility Company’s operations and related cost factors.  Please be advised that a motion to intervene as a protestant, if this is your desire after attending the informational meetings, must be accomplished prior to January 19th, 1988 at Marion Hall  224 Cast Palace Avenue, Santa Fe, New Haxico. No Testimony or Exhibits can be adaitted to the hearing after this da Th’ the absence of leaitimate protestants, the rate increase most likely will be “Soproved a The “hearing by the Public  Service Commission “nh Set for March 5," 1988 at 10 AM in,  Your Homeowners Association requ regulatory process to your acceptance or rejection of the proposed rate increase by the Sandia Peak Utility Corporation. It you are unable to attend these meetings, please contact your Homeowners Assn. of your desires with regard to this matters  ts your participation in this  HAPPY NEW YEAR! ! + MICRODATA inc.  ‘Se 220500 Marga Ave 