The Sandia Heights Homeowners' Association (SHHA) Board of Directors is seeking candidates for five open Director positions, each with a three year term. Directors should actively support SHHA's mission, including liaising with at least one major Board committee. A key objective is to support the quality of life within Sandia Heights and represent the interests of each district. The Covenant Support Committee (CSC) is working on a project to review and streamline the 38 sets of covenants, in an effort to make them clearer, more enforceable, and user friendly. Information regarding covenant changes will be shared through several channels, and changes will be implemented upon agreement from a majority of property owners. Residents are encouraged to remind AAA Gas and WM Pumping about the 15mph speed limit due to incident reports. Between November and December 2002, the Architectural Control Committee (ACC) supervised 13 applications in line with relevant Restrictive Covenants. The SHHA board has made strides to improve the association’s management, primarily by revising by laws and reassessing covenants for better enforcement. This has led to disagreements over tree and view blockage, color and design resulting in frequent legal disputes and increased membership fees. Contributions have been made to Cedar Hill Park sans proper member consent eliciting dissatisfaction. Alternatively, the parks committee seeks public input on the park's design. News is periodically shared via community mediums like The Grit and the Residents Guide. Events such as a Wine Tasting Event and a series on Islam have been scheduled, as well as the announcement of the passing of a former member, William L. Stabler. Ads for various services like computer assistance and babysitting are listed. Juniper Hill Road residents plead for better adherence to speed limits. Gardening advice includes undertaking specific tasks at different times in February and March. Pesticides are discussed and contact details for babysitting, house sitting, and tutoring services are provided. Lastly, the Sandia Heights Wildflower Club recently presented on creating ornaments from wild gourds and hummingbird garden design, offering membership for an annual fee of $5 to Susan Cook.