On June 7th, 10 AM Noon, the Sandia Heights community has several activities scheduled such as hearing reports from Officers and Committees, electing Directors to the Board, ratifying new Bylaws, and discussing new business by members. Efforts are being made by the Covenant Support and Architectural Control Committees to consolidate covenants for uniformity across different Units, with the enforcement of the covenants lying with SHIA. Established over 30 years ago, the community was intended to have aminimal impact on wildlife, native vegetation, and water supply, and the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association was created in 1978 to protect residents' interests. There is an ongoing initiative to update these Unit covenants and input from residents is encouraged. A successful Wine Tasting and Silent Auction has also made it likely for a second event to occur in October. The committee has successfully organized events and is considering moving the annual Spring wine tasting to late April for better weather, as well as a “Spring Fling” picnic around August or September at a suitable park yet to be chosen. The board is seeking volunteers, especially from districts that will not be represented after June, for forthcoming vacancies and are encouraging potential candidates to apply. Upcoming park improvements are also being discussed, with a suggestion to provide feedback on an update including meeting to discuss the design for Cedar Hill Park. The Parks Committee has identified issues that need addressing in Little Cloud Park which recently received herbicide granules to prevent GoatHead seeds. To improve conditions, fertilizer has been placed around trees, regular watering is scheduled between March and November, and if a GoatHead plant is spotted, pulling it up is recommended. The SHHA Board is addressing issues including speeding, fire protection, commercial development, park improvements, security, mountain trail access, view protection, and covenants. They are asking for detailed feedback from users to improve these areas, particular in regards to improvements and solutions for Little Cloud Park.