The Communications & Publications Committee's annual report highlights its responsibilities including publishing GRIT, managing the Resident Directory and website. Changes to the directory include the removal of unit maps due to space constraints, instead being accessible from the SHHA office or the website. GRIT is available in both print and electronic formats, with the website also enabling members to update contact details, and access the online directory and Tram pass availability. A security alert system is also in place to notify of safety concerns via email. Key points raised during the 2015 SHHA Annual Meeting, led by SHHA Secretary George Connor, has concerns under review with responses to be posted online. A system is in place to answer questions related to the neighborhood. Other noted points include information on Tram passes, SHHA Membership Cards and associated benefits, and safety advice related to pedestrian walking habits. The Finance Committee's report included the approved 2015 budget based on current and projected reserves and needed revenues. A decrease in dues from $10 to $8 was made due to evolving revenues and expenses, while also highlighting covenant violations related to trash can storage. Greg Lobberegt, a real estate broker with 30 years' experience offers a range of services including property sales, relocation, and investment. The SHHA Merchant Benefits Program provides exclusive discounts to homeowners from 27 participating merchants. Covenant issues, ranging from maintenance to landscaping problems, were addressed in 72 complaints in 2014 by the Covenant Support Committee, with some requiring legal intervention. The Architectural Control Committee (ACC) oversees external appearances of SHHA units and handles renovations from re roofing to new constructions. ACC meetings happen bi monthly, with full details available on the SHHA website. The ACC also works with the County Planning Commission on new developments. The SHHA hosts an annual photo contest for resident members, with submissions potentially used in the Directory or the Association's website. The SHHA also updates residents about community events, and encourages participation in local activities like the “Cork & Fork” dining activity and the annual Sandia Heights Artists Studio Tour.