The Sandia Homeowners Association (SHHA) has various officials including President Woody Farber, Vice President Susan McCasland, Secretary Travis Rich, Treasurer Cheryl Iverson, board members Dale Arendt, Bob Bower, and Joe Boyce, and Committee Chairs such as Bob Bower for the Architectural Control Committee (ACC). Others include Bob Thomas for the Covenant Support Committee (CSC), Susan McCasland for Communications and Publications (C&P), Stephen Baca for Community Service and Membership (CS&M), Cheryl Iverson for the Finance Committee (FC), and Travis Rich for the Parks and Safety Committee (P&S). The organization seeks new Board members with an emphasis on pre retirees and families with children. Community services involve residents maintaining an adopted section of Tramway Blvd and dealing with the issue of Siberian Elm trees increasing water usage and septic system costs. SHHA suggests collective action against mature invasive trees and offers facilitation of resolutions. Board member, Joe Boyce, proposes individual security camera installation being the most beneficial for community safety, suggesting private systems for residents near neighborhood entry points. They hope to discourage crime through signage and provide system recommendations. Latest statistics reveal in September 2020, 20 alarm calls and 65 special requests were made but it's important to note that Sandia Heights Services do not include subscriptions to SHHA or Sandia Heights Security membership. Residents need to confirm this. Carco Air Service's Chief Pilot, Jim Bixler, discovered a plane wreckage on the “Dragon's Tooth” pinnacle, with the recovery operation transitioning to the recovery of 16 bodies. A Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) investigation in March 1955 concluded that alongside poor weather, the aircraft was approximately 10 miles off course. In terms of property, several projects were approved by the ACC including maintenance, repair, and installation works. Information on these can be found on their website. There's a cancellation notice of the Sandia Heights “Cork & Fork” Dining Activity due to the pandemic. Also, Albuquerque's main water sources are mentioned, and there's information concerning bow hunting regulations. A free gardening webinar series, “Ready, Set, GROW!” is offered, covering home, vegetable, and landscape gardening topics and is delivered twice a month until March 2021 by various experts. A series of date specific plant care and gardening events are open to those interested. Lastly, closings of the SHHA office at 12700 San Rafael Ave. NE Ste. 3, Albuquerque, NM, are announced for Veterans Day and Thanksgiving.