THE  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  Ea  RECENT LEGAL RULING IN COVENANT CASE  The Board wants to make you aware of a recent loal District Court ruling about covenant enforcement in Sandia Heights. Last year, aresidet, as stipulated in the Resncave Covenants for thei unt, applied to the Architectural Control Commitee (ACC) to build an adltion to their existing home. The ACC denied the applicati based onthe finding that, as designed, it would unduly itecfere with the views of other neighbors. A suit was filed comtesting, among cher things, the authonty ofthe Homeowners Associaton and the AC to deny the application  April — May 2001  ‘After trial the judge's ralings in the ease were that:  The Sandia Heights Restrictive Covenants are vabd and binging  “The ACC is valily constitted and has the legal authority to review and approve r disapprove plans as long ait acts reasonably.  -The Architectural Control Commitee acted reasonably in its review  process and reached a reasonable conclusion  This ruling validates one of the basic reasons why many residents have chosen to make Sandia Heights their home, One of the intentions of the original developers of Sandia Heights was to legally protect the architectural uniqueness and integrity of eur neighborhood. We are ll reminded that it is in our collective best interests to be aware of, and to act conssterly wit, the covenants and restrictions in our individual unit.  Bylaws Changes Up for Ratification at Annual Meeting  Changes tothe Bylaws ofthe Association willbe onthe agenda of tis year’s annual meeting for ratification by the members, The Board of Directors approved the changes, ad the raifation at a meeting of the general sembership is required t complete the changes. Any member iteested in obtaining a copy of the current by- Jaws with the proposed changes may conract the Association ofice fora copy.  ‘At the 2000 Annual Metin, the members approved acon to review and propose changes to the bylaws. The board established a bylws revision committee With the following members: LA Bamowsky, John Coffey, ‘Martin Inkelas, Rick Nelson, and Charie Pechewlys (chit)  ‘The proposed changes include updates to the following areas: ‘The membership peso he owners ef aca propery ae esabished ‘What constues a gucrum fra membership cecing ss wich has been by implicason aly, it the past) and for Board meetings revise upwant. Rote Rae of Orde wil gover all mectng of te Asocition,inctaing removal of directors and oie ‘The aahsory fr the beard to estahsh csamsees sland "hs ammustane burden br propeing revisions oh Bylaws esene ‘The ouabe of ay fois fr coaus mowings sacral nd the pes of tng tat enmited are revised   Claricasens ae made o provisions on selection of ices and eects ‘Anyone with particular questions may contact Charlie Pechewlys, committe chair.  ‘AB Moathy Pubizaion Page? The Gat  SHHA BOARD ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN 2000/2001 YEAR  Following are the highlights of significant accomplishments by the SHH Board of Directors during the staff year 2000-2001, which began in July 2000 and ends in June 2001, Because of space limitations, only a summary of each ‘ofthe actions is provided in ths aicle. SHHLA members desiring additional information on any ofthese actions are encouraged to altad the annual membership mecting on June 2, 2001 and present specific questions tothe Board,  SIGNIFICANT ACCOMPLISHMENTS:  + Opened the SHHA Office. This is by far the most significant accomplishment ofthe SHHA Board of Direc~ tors ths year, The establishment of the SHA office enabled the following related ations tobe accom plished  48) Discontinsed the decades long practice of having a contrac for an Administrative Assistant who ‘worked out oftheir home and who maintained all SHHA files/records and office equipment in their home. The SHHA’s evolution and increasing support needs over rent years bepan fo stretch the ca pabiitis of ths type of support and a the same time kept driving up the costs of the support. The es- {ablishment ofthe office enabled the movement ofall SHH files and equipment into a facility where ‘the BOD and membership could have acces to such when and as required  by Replaced the Administrative Assistance contract with a contract with a personal placement firm for two part-time administrative personnel to workin the SHH office 4 hous per day, five days per week. ‘These two people provide support tothe Architectural Control and Covenants Support committees and are responsive to BOD and SHHA membership needs suchas distributing and receiving building and remodeling applications and responding to telephonic requests for information and assistance relative tothe SHHA. This sta sow also assists in he publication ofthe Git (ee Grit paragraph below)  ‘©) Terminated the lease on a storage shod where past year SHA records a well as requests and plans sub- ritted tothe ACC were maintained. The lease of the new office space enabled these stored records to ‘be consolidated with the other SHHA records in a central location. Work continues inthe review and. integration ofall the records  4) Improved interface between the SHH Board and the SHIA membership to the extent that SHHA ‘members now have a place where they can go to meet face-to-face with Board members and staff to ‘obtain information and address questions, obtain copes of forms and Declarations of Restrictions, and review SHH operating and historical records,  ‘Established a Formal Annual Budget of $121,000 based on projected operating expenses and als allo- cated funds to separate reserve accounts for beth Open Space acquisition as well a fr legal costs that may ‘be incured in the enforcement ofthe Declarations of Restrctons/Restrictive Covenants within Sandia Heights  ‘© Redesigned and Expanded the SHHA Website to make it more informative for SHHA members. Also ob- tained the support ofa professional webmaster.  + Insttuted a New Procedure and Process for Publication ofthe SHHIA"s Grit that included arevized fox mat, increased frequency of publication fiom quarter to bi-monthly, and inereased distribution from just ‘SHHA members to all Sandia Heights residents, The increased distribution was aimed at encouraging more residents to become members of and involved withthe SHHLA. Iti important to note these changes resulted {nan annual cost savings in Grit publication and distribution of $4,000.00,  © Won a Legal Case where a resident disputed and legally challenged an ACC decision that was rendered ‘based on an existing Declaration of Restriction. The court upheld the ACC’s decision and alo the right of the ACC to enforce the Declaration of Resrictions/Restrctive Covenants.  ‘+ Opposed Commercial Development - Spearheaded an effort in opposition tothe proposed commercial d= ‘velopment ofthe vacant property within Sandia Heights onthe East side of the intersection of Tramway and Paseo del Norte, This efor resulted inthe developer withdrawing his development application and postpon- ing the resubmission of such for one year.  ‘© Park in Sandia Heights - Assisted a Sandia Heights’ neighbostood group in their suocessfl efforts to have ‘Bermalillo Country aequie the parcel of land atthe intersection of Cedar Hill Rd and Tramway Blvd forthe ‘establishment of Cedar Hill Pak  ‘A BiMonthiy Publication ase The Oat  NEW BOARD DIRECTORS NEEDED  ‘By: Jock Wolfe, SHHA Vice President  ‘The Sandia Heights Homeowners’ Association (SHHA) is in search of candidates to fill nine forthcoming vacancies on its Board of Directors  ‘What qualifications are required tobe a Director? Probably the most valable qualifications ae the interests, ability (sls aod time) and dedication to support the mission ofthe SHA. ‘This mission sto coondinate planning and implementation of selected services and activities o promote the common interes and welfare ofthe homeow= ‘rs, property owners and residents within Sandia Heights and to assist in maintaining the quality of life for which the development was established. Each Director futons as a Board member and aso as a menber of at least ne of the ‘Boasd’s major commitces that mclade the Architectural Control Committe, the Covenants Support Comite, and A compe ist of major commis is cnn he yellow page of te SERA’ 2001 Diet of Fs-  Normally, the Board consists of approximately 24 Directors. This is an approximate figure as the actual ‘umber may vary fom 199 28 at any onetime depending on the needs ofthe Assocation a well sth periodic de- partueresignation of Directors for various reasons, The Directors are voted ito ofc for a 3-year term atthe an- ‘ual membership mecting And, the term of office ofthe overall board is staggered with approximately one-third of the Directors’ term of office expiring each yea. Ths reuts in approximately eight Director vacancies to be Sled ach year  “The Board curtertly consists of 22 Directors with nine ofthese Directors now serving in the lst few months ofc 3-year term of office, Therefore, the Board isin need of candidates to fil thse nie postions. tis dsiable to have at least 12 to 18 good candidates to pat forth on a ballot to be presented to and vot upon by the SHA ‘memes atthe Annual Membership mecting tobe held on June 2, 2001, The tp nine vote gers willbe announced te conclusion ofthis mecting and wil fil the nie foricoming vacancies, The nancy of the other selected eandi- dates wil be reine on alist as potetal candidates to fill vacancies that may occur dong he year  Over the last several years, the Board has soughe to have representation from each of the 12. “Districts” within Sandia Heights. It is fe tht though such represcataton, there is a beter chance thar the interest, concerns and etc. within cach District wil be represented on the Bourd. A map of the "Districts" and the Units encompassed within each Districts located on pages 6 and 7 of ths Gr.  ‘While there have been increased atiempts to gain representation from each District, these attempts have not yt been completely succesful as evidest by the fact that three Districts are not curently represented on the Board ‘These Dastricts are” Sandia, Quail, and Pinon. This situation could become worse withthe departure ofthe nine Di- rectors whose terms expire this year as this could add three more Districts without representation, These Distets are Cedar, Deer and Eagle. Thus, and without some concerted effort by home and property owners ~ end spe cally persoas interested in becoming Beard members/Direciors~ frm within these six Districts, there isthe potential  that half ofthe Sandia Heights’ Districts (and populace) will hve no representation onthe Board foe the 2001/2002 year,  ‘Based onthe noted station, the Boards now seking at lest oe pon fom cach ofthe above note sx discs who intrested in maintaining and enhancing te goality of fe and uniqunes of thee Sanda Heights ‘emmy ad who i willing and able to volume: some of thei sil and perenl time tobe a Board Dor ‘The Beard is also seking a ast ix individ for be or ss Distt wo have es interests and ees, sod who ar wing bezome Board Duets  “Al itersed individuals re requested to submit a hot resume of thir pee skils and experience to the SHIA. Remmes may be sited va repr mail, email or hand delivery to the SHHA fice and should be marked: Aston Nasinting Conmes, Ea sitmescns shouldbe eto sthadn@aol com  If thre are any queron concer becoming ante othe SHIA 's Bono Decors submission of resumes, lease call he SHIA office x 197.7785  [[aBcatonty Potion Pose Tie Gr  Thank you to all of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association advertisers and supporters!  Enchantment Speech Language Pathology Services, LLC DD Victoria S. Smidt M.S., CCC-SLP ‘4217 Montgomery Blod. NE  tbuquerque, New Mexico 87109 (505) 830-2220 Fax (505) 830-2400  SPIRITS OF THE SOUTHWEST | Attorney ¥ ‘omesuett  Soutwest Furi orae  11910.Dal Rey NE auerque. NM 87122 (05) 056-5233,  JEFF SPECK, C.GR.  Dan Cauditlo (505) 856-6617  JOE McGEE"s PAINTING  19 years experience  Reasonable fcemsedbondedinsured — Qssiy  ‘hues! igteriorleateririrepairs Wore -FREE ESTIMATES  [A BiMontiy Poblication Pages The Get  TRAFFIC AND SAFETY COMMITTEE  Glens Kuswa, chair DOG HAZARDS  Some members of our community have expressed alarm over loose dogs, sometimes runaing in packs. Normally ocile and friendly pets may undergo a temporary personality change inthe company of ober dogs, becoming a dan- {er to children orto ether animals and birds. Ifyou bave concerns about potentially dangerous dogs, and you have <ificalty solving the problem thzough local discussion, you can call the county animal control (873-6706) between ‘the hous of700am and 4:00pm seven days a week. Tho county will wal in stage, fst trying fo contact the owner, ‘ad finally using a humane capture trp. You can locate deals atthe county net site www bemeo gov. Of course, ‘the best solution is fo pet owners to heed this note and to properly confine their pets, dream oa, Glens!  ARE HABITUAL SPEEDERS TERRIFYING YOU? 4 =  ‘The Roads and Safety Committee welcomes opinions ffom more residents concerning  ‘ways to control speeding, particularly installing more speed humps, and deploying a new device that will automati- cally spray pant and eggs on cars going faster that 4Omph, (ust kidding!) We have been collecting opinions on long term solution, but we have an immediate partial solution to contol those few drives who grossly abuse the 15 and 25 mph postings on our twisting narrow stress.  WE HOPE THAT YOU WILL DO YOUR PART TO CONTROL THE WORST SPEEDERS. DO NOT THROW ROCKS ‘OR WAVE WILDLY, BUT DO USE THE GUIDANCE HERE 70 CALL THE SHERIFF . The County Sherif will welcome complaints fom resdens who are avare of Nagant speedes. Its parla effective ifthe offenses follow a predictable tine Faster Simply nt the plate mbes and the wehicle descrtion and describe the lation and ime patent Sg. Broce Smith ‘rt Deputy Sam Sates at 341-5024. While mot of ws ar reactant case ou neighbors the cst of spending ticket and ‘he ofl eves more expensive mate of increased inancepremeams, the sfy Commits boioves tat sealing i eptemic.  By the way, we commitee members are strongly motivated to take actions. A very serious two-car accident in ‘Sandia Height occurred just afew weeks ago. Forturately, there were no fialtes. Excessive speed was the cause, ‘a has bees the casein numerous accidents or near-miss tat long-time residents can reall. (Particalar thanks 10  ae AA A  x Sandia Heights Security 4  Mobile number 263-4654  fa  Sandia Heights Security provides security patrolling to all of Sandia Heights. They respond to all sorts of problems, but we must remember they are NOT POLICE and they do not have the au- thority to make arrests. When needed, they have radio contact with the Sheriff, Fre and other emergency units  Sandia Heights Security is not a pat of nor is it affiliated with Sandia Heights Homeowners Association in any way. They are a subsidiary of Sandia Heights Services, the utility company in Sandia Heights. They are supported by the $10.25 monthly fee paid by residents who subscribe to ther service. To sign up with Sandia Heights Security call Sandia Heights Services at 857-8924  I you have any suggestions or complaints about Sandia Heights Security they request that you cal the Security Manager, Larry Buynak at 856-2726  nn 4  L  hts Districts i  gl 4  Sandia Hei  JUNIPER  or Board Representation  or Board Representation  High Desert  hens « Bathrooms + Home Additions  -=* 883-4040  Visit One of New Mexico's Largest Kitchen & Bath Showroo  A] Li a a Q i} = i ze  Sandia Presbyterian Church  sages Seeing  Repairs & Maintenance  Licensed = Inwed = Bonded  Our “Target” & your “Satisfaction  nents do not represen ement by SHHA or its officers or directors  FREE CLASSIFIED AD'S FOR MEMBER'S CHILDREN To place an ad for member's children please call the SHHA office 797-7793, office hours are: Noon to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday  peech- Tritton  jal O30 ESO  BILINGUAL ENGLISH/SPANISH ‘ASHA CERTIFIED. LICENSED STATE OF NEW MEXICOINEW YORK  TELEPHONE SOSMIET28 AL ah b sp@vatCO.cOM  Wild Birds Unlimited  Mary Schmauss  ‘STUMPED? It you need help designing your remodel, ation, ‘new home, or smply wish to discuss your options, cal the experts, Wo'l show you how easy ‘and enjoyable (realy) can be. We can provide ‘excellent Sandia Heights references, to,  298-8900  CLASSIFIED ADS FOR MEMBERS CHILDREN  G  ou Desert Stan  © BANK  (QUERQUE, So #7122  94S FA SOSH  sass  Joun  ‘THE STOFAC TEAM SELLS.  EliteHomes »«  = avalable for weekend  100  R. PICKERING  ‘A BiMonthy Pacation  Page The Get  TREASURERS REPORT Rick Nelson, Treasurer  CONDITION AS OF 3/31/01 Banks Accounts (Checking Account $7802.66 (CD- Operations Reserve 5,033.00 CD Legal Reserve 20,672.58 CD- Open Space Reserve 20467234 Ottce Petty Cash 100.00  Total in Bank 6432078 Other Asses Office fumiure & Equipment $7,503.65 Secunty Deposits 278 Prepaad expense  “otal Other Asets Liabitities OVERALL TOTAL $63,671.90 <1 MONTH CASH FLOW RE-  Sept, 2000 rough March 31,2001  Inflow Agatsing $2,690.00 [ACC Income 1,705.00 Wine Tasting come 151000 Tetereat Famed Vos. 98 Membership Dues, Net 45.63494 Total flow 53,2088 Outflow Commits expense $ 1,6948 Direcoryne les adalat period 2,497 33, Executive Commies “02.00 Gat 42169 Wineasting 151319 Insurance 6962.08 Legal oppose commercial 6,694 88 Lega, other 2169814 New Office st up "285 45 Of ate worage "25.00 Office expense 11,946.75 Ottce sat? 1733092 Oitcers Expense 043 IRS od Stet 7800 Web Site 2063.66 Oppose Commerial Mise. 1.8021 Sopport Cala Hl Pack 10.08 Total Outtow 6093533  Members can obtain a more detailed poet by checking wil the office staff  Secretary’s Report Deborah Griswold, Secretary  ‘Summary of Minutes:  ‘March Board of Directors Meeting  (On March 14, 2001, the SHHA Board of Directors met.  ‘The Treasurer, the sanding Committes, andthe ad hoc  Committees gave reports. The following resolutions  and motions were passed daring the meeting  ‘+The issue of home rule will be placed on the agenda for the June general membership meeting  + Am Anmal Plan Commitee will be formed to ad- ‘ress and guide issues being faced by SHA,  ‘+ The Communication, Membership and Community Service Committee will be split ito & Community Service and Membership Committee and a Comma ‘cations Commitee  ‘+ Representative Robert Burpo and Senator Keat Cra- vens have requested funding for developmest of Co- dar Hill Park at the legislative reson  ‘+ The Traffic and Safety Committe wil be in contact withthe County to determine the proces fr getting speed humps installed, and the County policy on vegetation control,  The ad hoc Commercial Development Commitee is preparing forthe expected reapliation fo a zoning change for the property at Pasco del Norte ant ‘Tramway Blvd,  w te i i ‘SHHA Annual Meeting Notice! iN} sy} ‘The SHHA Annual Meeting will take place on Saturday, June 2nd at I) The Church of the Good Shepherd [Hi 7854 Teanyeon NE, from 10:00 AM Ny 5 t0 100M. u DA) atsandia Heights Residents will Lal) ] receive a “Little Grit” of the Annual wl  SSS SSS SY  Tele WN ‘satonbagry door sein, SeAumEL. Zp] E YOO) HESS OF gn DMO “PUM Bigg peg emp o> xgesed (9 $$ 205 ADDN pus avESE HID ‘Jo suns 2x3 snases poe soquiw  2woI3q Of uDK2 20 Suna Sue 01 pontasr w Suquapred wr passion: Hep SHBIOH PERS Muy  pasunoe ae 99 01 001d 38 voseas mow aut sade 18 wid o¢ 9 we BuUNBoR saddes ung tea yPmn0d & to0z “6 BqUEHDS kePSIUPOM YO “FIO #08 sno Solus 9 aya souRENS 9 25 pouuEyd axe sSuSSu ON  pero 99 sea Sanaos aig 20} 20459 woREPPE s|_s8ORHNBs pu sap ok {gs soo osnad os 2206 Suruoo oy) 2 poo ave sueardyorys 2 Buroour Buursuesq fete xp 99 hs SR. 400" R19, KE ~smey zest 00D wens 7 9G SH HO LH eK GA WP “780 POE SONOGPEN SRE SPIES 2H 1007" SEN SEPEIUPDA UO  sod 249 Te 4-7 TI we 9.0] 3 sr a9 Um YUH JOHN TON, HES WEAN AML 206T 01 fod seo on joey esp AeNURE He J80- UM ER 30 194 unped xp ot um 3 Bop “TOOT “1Z BAY epeINS 05 poe 2g Ts et spre Kayne. wAHsosNEWONIN OY MRS OF din FY Y  K K ; aro waaay axv Fs  WAMO/LAGTIAN SLHOTAH VIGNVS  Sanaa hag Horses Aas Po boctozt Abegargm 6 712021  _  | REMINDER ~ Spring Litter Cleanup Sat April 28  | SAW AM Wo UE Nooe |  gu Pick up your bags at the | “at  | SHIA Office Thursday & Ui CS | PM, and from 8:30 AM on Saturday. Filled bags will be picked up from the | SHILA office by Sandia  ee |  Jah & vila Miler in CK BEAR RD NE  es Sep | wpeitooh oF 8208 exon esues seeuces ‘Paro wae  esan x4 onaneord  ‘eis eeu Bioesumcouoyerpuer min 35tg 20m Slo saumsawounpuesBeuss Tews preeaae-s0s 24 BLE UsLs05 Whe 1200979128 AN enbabnany  PRWSS**C-003  mC 97122-1816" 