San  live. During his racing we else 12 new Board members and Tam very ‘or that hey are 12 ofthe finest in Sania Highs. {ook forward to werking with each sand everyone of them. We finally suceeded in geting a representative from every dst in Sandia Heights ‘xcept Bea and Cota. Next year it wil be one of our pals to pet every disc represented onthe Board If {you live in oe of those suis, snd are interested taking Sandia Helghs abet place ive pleaseno- {fy the SHIA Ofice at (505) 797-7793. The ay i small ($0.00 pe hour), the work it ar, the ours are tong, bt the eifiction you will eee for dong 3b wll doe is outstanding  encourage all of you to get involved wath your community by becoming a voting member ofthe SHA. “The does ae oly $8 0 per mouth snd provide the rsourecs need © publish be GRIT newselr, mails the SHHA web sie (we sancahomeowners or), pbs the anoual resents recy and suport actives {w.ensare tha developmant des nt desoy the chart of Your comsmuraty. Your acne support of the SHILA will ensure that your voice and your concerns are en dso that you can pot= the iestment you have sn you howe  "Mott of you already know tht we live in one ofthe most dex lecatons in New Mesico. We enjoy ‘nut weiter jas abot every ay of the year. However, as beawifl weather dosn't cose witht » price. Bocnuse we have ver ite ain er wae spp) isa Sear resource that mast be protec from over= Ue or abuse Saad Heights is one of few neighbotods in New Menico tat enoouages edt o design ‘heir landscaping in earl and deser typesetting Many of our resident do nt fll understand noc appec- ‘lat our shortage of water and find it dll to derstand why the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association (SHA) tum dowa request for water consuming projec. Many times we cannot ally refee a request so ‘we ty to reason with Ge resident Sometimes we Win, teins We loge but we wlll lose i we exceed the ‘capac of car water sept.  ‘One ite tT would ike to emphasize ol sides she ft that your Bout of Directors ca only afore wit is wits in your covenars Please review your covenants and if ae is something thal you ‘would like to change, do A change to your covenants mas be submited by someone in your unit In most es it aks 75% of he Ramcowners to conc Ifyou 6 nt have 3 Curent copy of our cavenans they ca ‘te found onthe SHHA website (wir sandihomeownen rp, ot you cas ick wpa copy atthe SHIVA Office 608) 797-798,  “Two atic toms tat have come to our wbetion lately concer lose pets and vandalism I sems within the pas year ors people have stared eting the animals eam the neighborhood. nat least oe case, ‘twas reported than animal, wich was not we proper consol the owner bit a indivi. Anal ae ‘ot allowed run loos in Sandia Heights non Bema Coen, and the owner oth animal aways ‘Sponsble for ht acSo/tehavor, Plate read the yellow pages in your SHILA Directory of Residents page 7 of “A Guide for Residents”. The aticle "PETS" isvery informative and woth rang. The scoad item of = ‘erst is vandalism, This problem seems tobe geting Dig every yen. Thi past Mach it was reported tha on ‘ne night alone, Hf homeowners were suck Automobile ies were slashed, car windows smasbed, home win- dows broken and maioxcs destroyed. Your SILA has posted a reward forthe apr ofthe individuals hat ‘were espesibie for ths vandlisn  "m sr you can sec bythe above comments tat being an SHA Board member isa very demanding ob, ‘butone that is essential and very rewarding. If you can nt asst the HHA in any ote way, ask that you st ‘eat be sapptive of the Associaton and the nowt tae oe of the members ofthe Board eal you, pease Show them the spect they desene. Ion th Gar band soos Oa the Board is respec yOu, please  the SHIVA offic (308) 797.7799,  ‘A Bi-Monthly Publication Page 2 The Grit  ACC Annual Report 2000/2001 Sack Woe, ACC Member  ‘This past year hasbeen a very demanding and rating year for the Architectural Cott ‘Committee (ACC) as it continued to strive to effectively support the home and property owner” tcrests rough ensuring all constuction, including maiesnance, rept and remodeling projects and landscaping efforts were compliant with applicable restrictive covenants  ‘On the demanding side, the ACC recived and processed approximately 110 roquets fr pro- ects that ranged from new construction, to remodeling, to landscaping to general repairs. As one ‘might expect, the numberof requests involving remodeling and reps projects continues to increase cach year  “Another demanding aspect of the ACC functions has boca that of enforcing compliance with the restrictive covenants that exist within cach soographical un Within ncary every st of cove ‘ans there are some provisions that are vague and ths makes the enforcement of such very challeng- ing, One example is the provision that new (and remodeled) structures must be in harmony with r= rounding structures. What is and is not in Banmony can encompass numerous factors to inclode home se (errr, pucbo, Settadale, Northern New Mexico, an! ete), elevation (one and two sty), roofing to include not only slope or at, but also materia (ile, metal, asphalt, and ce) The ACC kas sd wal contin to enforce the covenant for cach and all units othe best of ts abity, bu it sorely ‘cods the assistance of all home and property owners. The asistance needed is that of updating the ovenazis forall uns fo reflect in lear ad concise tem those restitions which the home and Property cwners wast fr thei nit  ‘There have been may gratifying aspects relative to the ACC's functions over the past year and two especially stand out. The fist was the opening ofthe SHA Office and the Board's hiring ‘ofa part-time supporting staff. This has enabled the ACC aswel asthe enure SHHA Board o beter support its members and to keep up with the ineeased number of requests for ACC suppor this year ‘The second gratifying action was a court ruling upbolding the ACC's authonty to disapprove pro- ‘posed construction requests when such construction i notin compance with restive covenants ‘This court ruling validated the ACC's processes and also cleared up the issue of whether or ot tbe ACC has the auton o disapprove projets tha are not compliant with existing covenants  "Your ACC looks forward serving the Sadia Heights home and property owner inthe coming year aad to hearing from the SHHA membership in how it might increase is services ant  sppen Ge CLASSIFIED ADS FOR MEMBERS’ CHILDREN 13-year-old boy with Boy Scout raising available for babysitting & house sitting. Contac Patrick 856-1283 [1 ougrew ial Pape TW EXPERIENCED 13-YEAR- Tost eat May 20 Caspers a Diamondback “Outack 3 OLD WORKER! Inge ick male wh clr sd [ais "bke. Pink Aveur) | Good for dong old bs around | | mapets tact Contact Jn travelpack. Halogen light. Like ‘the house while you are away: ‘Cook at 797-9303 of 2017 Quail new! $140.00 (Need money for Watenng, picking up mail, ‘Run Drive NE. Doset Ridge “Earope Tap) | | thing are 6 pets and MUCH - ‘am Jobson 85678 MORE CALE S668 aed) [Jad Ma TNA onan f - ask for Jordant | available for weekends and TD year ad git wih ICA tone erngs or baby ster training Available Suasie Willams 206-3406 iemeope tag for baby siting ad pcre forbs Ca 295-2508 Cosae Hary at 96-7023  ‘AB Monty Pblcaion Pad The Gat  TRAFFIC AND SAFETY COMMI Bic Nua, Chair  EE ISSUES  CU SDS} ” A few problems are particularly troubling to our neighborhood:  «Single and mati dg stuck orp cnr. Dost ye fora opera pc can become para hopes. A pumall cil ogc tecume al uns ardaowe ote fy tt ome aed able iy br uy heel obo pet  «ima eae preal digasing in sme wel sacl paths an along some als. Cony ordinances regu creas omer Oe pins  «Mon surtcom ofr sles, a may ty thieves nongoisnous sks, nan sea suchas ours whee 0 Ms arecou unde plague com opined la tsa Leng at,  + Bang dogs or emantary conn ar dsturbg sme of ur ibaa SHA des at have yt rey Melb wg ft ringing pay prelanswt tinal cvan, uf i oe St wok, Ss shoot dy enc te Shes lice for rane neem  + Youcan nd ordntee del on th oun web te a wn gov ont copy fhe Berailo Cty Animal Cote! Ordinance Coe abe SHTA offer you san flow be Govenet Link om out tatoo wn sacuhnaownc tp  2 1 OG 1 2% wessenty seat noes to residents in neighborhoods where canis and ater veetation will Devrmme bck proximally ee et fom thea pve The pape sore ’ "SJ 4 room for vehicles to pass, to enhance fire safety, and to improve pedestrian safety. By applying OP OY resting youcan ona es exomgton om etl, nla Go bve mola mer tans ity Sony er Goalges, Te secs tale fr work a: San Rael om i) “Tramway Bivd to its eastem extreme at Honeysuckle, Bobcat, Deer Drive, and Tramway Lane ftom Bebeat Liv Oak aniline Oxk Ra. hem Tramvay Blvd Trameay Lane seo trey ‘Ting wil eps dango snl dy, sometime ar ly 30 Vie approve 30 days fro  Inala. Th SHA oc ml prone atincive ans ad inten foe who eu cpus  tng fou willbe bet daring the etn Cine, plese fom te oi, otha ou vole c eat eu  rere  A CRIME SURVEY WILL BE AN IMPORTANT TOOL TO  REDUCE CRIME IN SANDIA HEIGHTS This isa reminder to care- fully fill out and to return the crime survey that will arrive your water bill this month ‘ornext, Please return it to the SHHA office. We will use the results in several ways, but the most important use willbe in securing added attention from law enforcement to better serve the Sandia Heights.  ’ ,  - ‘SPEEDERS LIKELY TO BE TICKETED The county performed a speed survey in a  9 sample location, and te findings show tat large hummbors of our neighbors have litle regard forthe posted speeds and for the safety of pedestrians and other vehicles. Speeds of 35 and 40 ina ISmph zone are quite common, and highsrspouds have been clocked. Asa result, the Sherif will be placing speed traps. The cost of the tickets usually small n comparison wih aed insurance rates. PLEASE SHARE THIS NOTICE TO DRIVE AT POSTED \SPEEDS WITH ALL DRIVERS IN YOUR FAMILY.  ‘We expect to petition for speed bumps in some locations because the us of ticketing doesnot permanently solve the safety problem. However, obtaining speed bumps awaits the completion of some engineering stodies and Will require signatures of of the residents on the selected strets, 20 this will not happen as quickly a5 we wish Please share your opinions with he Traffic and Salty Commitee, and consider being a voluntecr when the time comes to collect signatures,  [Bi Monthly Publication Prue t The Grit  Thank you to all of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association advertisers and supporters!  WINDOW Enchantment Speech Language  CLEANING | Pathology Serrioves Te Water stain Remove 2-2 ‘speciatist  FTEVE MUMBONVER Victoria S. Smid¢ M.S., CCC-SLP ae 4217 Montgomery Blod. N ideal Albuquerque, New Mexico 87109  as the ft (505) 830-8820 Fax (505) 830-4400  SPIRITS OF THE SOUTHWEST Attorney V "rom seo 2200  Soutmoet Fury» At » cesses Thomas Smidt I (od Moco « Cantos» Nove American [ATTOnNEY Ar LAW TAX, ESTATE & BUSINESS LAW.NA., LLC Waat7 MONTGOMERY NE ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87109 (508) 690-2200 * FAX (08) 830-4400  lok HOWARD e519 Mena id NE. (to areaace ‘aries, NAL 8710  Sandia Environmental Designs Landscape Design & Consultations ‘Cleanup & Hauling  [ADEnterprises Inc. Des ruction Dan Caudillo (505) 856-6617  JOE McGEEs PAINTING  19 years experience Resonable Ficensed/bondedlinsured Quality ‘ate! igterioriexterioirepairs Work  332.8173 (oobi) 263.9614  2000 — 2001 Treasurer’s Report ‘Rick Nelson, Treas  ‘Wen I became reamarer the end of August 2000 it was pleasure to fn the books ad cords of SHELA were up to date nd very wel keg In he mont that flowed the operon of SHA sartd wo change a with thove changes came the need {0 ‘Gust or sxouming methods Ths incded & reorganization of the various bookkeeping accounts and wanaferrng the SHHLA books ‘Bom  Macezosh format oa PC Somat fr backup work PC's are wed by moa board member]. The books cotinue to Be kept co seas bas  (One ofthe fir projects was to estab emerve finds fr Legal, Open Space and Operating expenses. The Legal and Open ‘Spoce fads ave remained at $20,000.00 each. The Operating Expenses fund has tuted as was expected,  “The nex project was to develop a budget un have it approved bythe Board of Directors. The 2001 ~ 2002 Budge is being ‘work on anf willbe presented tothe Boar of Directors for approval at the Aust Board testing  “The cost ofthe ne office for rex, electric, ation tephone Kine, and Iterne onset ison the average $1,089.00, ‘er mouth, or only $0.64 per moath for each member household. Tas ssl pice 10 pay to have al SHHA records one place ‘tod accestibie to association members, board members ud salt  ‘Having two (2) staff members i the ofice fom moon to pn Mendy trough Fiay, pus apart te ofice leaning and ‘maintenance person, fas averaged $2441.90 per moh compared to the average monty com of $2.29292 of tving #2 ‘dinisrative assistant wader contrict and working fom a prvate owe not locate! in Sandia Hei  “The crreat board has been ddiatd 1 provide the best service to SHEA menber snd Sania Heighs reer inthe mos cot efectve way. We eve progress bing aden hat ection A report of cei and expenses in avalale to member st the SHHA Once Monday through Friday Som 12 ual 4px  $3940.21 siion92 33306003 4695666 (see Not 1) 7.47  —lamis sae Siissse $73,961.67 $69,873.89  20.00 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 saunas ' 00.00 (See Note #2)  ‘Total Assets minus Liabilities S6ssossi S@s7399  ‘Note #: Reserve nd CD is: Legal Reserve $20,000.00, Open Space Reserve $20,000 0, Operating Expense Reserve $6,956.66 Note #2: SHIA’  ‘ABE Mond Pobication| Pages ‘The Grit  ‘A Bidoathly Publication  BOARD OF COMMITTEES  DIRECTORS  ow Ausapt LA Bannowsky ‘atk Boslough Dick Bracket Take Chavez RE Solin Cottey ‘George Connor Tim Cook  Richard Fredrikson Haris Goodwin enn Kosa sind Lugows Finian Murpy ‘ick Nelson Enc Naga Dan O'Bryan Ken Rey Jay Scowetry Frank Soper Tack Wolfe  3 OFFICE STAFF “Temes Anderson  ACC/COVENANTS ADMIN. ASST,  is Jacobsen  PARKS, NEW DEVELOPMENT  ‘Bob Christan  Teanite Chavez Dennis Thompson "Ba Tull  AND PUBLICATION ‘Gloria Nelson  People of SHHA for the 2001-2002 Year  EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ‘Dom Aunapu, President Jack Wolfe, Vice President ‘Gleon Kiowa, Secretary Rick Nelson, Treasurer  ‘oka M- Coffey, Chair LA. Bannovsky Dick Bracke Richard Frederiksen ‘Ken Reidy Frank Soper Tick Walfe Jake Chane, visor COVENANTS CONTROL COMMITTEE ‘Mark Bosiooth Haris Goodwin Dan O'Bryan Judy Sehwery Jake Chaver, advisor Dick Bevchet uth Frazier Astrid Lagowshi inn Mur  COMMUNICATIONS AND PUBLICATIONS Tim Cook, Car  Scot Frederick Harris Goodwin Rick Nelson  NT.& GOV, x ‘George Connor “im Coole Larry Desonir Rober Francs, Gov. Lisison ‘Astid Lgowski Eric Nuttall, ‘TRAFFIC AND SAFETY, ‘Ene Natal, Chait ‘Mark Bosloggh Lamy Desoner ‘Scott Frederic.  ‘utr oy  Rick Nelon, Chai  Robert Francie  Ruth Frazier  Pinian Murphy Dick Bracket, advisor LEGAL ADVISOR  Take Chiver  ‘ABi-Monthiy Publication Page? The Gat  ek RP x Seg ms él  emalillo County purchased the property for the Cedar Hill Park. Members of the comunitee and Bob Christman have boon mecting with County officials to discuss the plans for Cedar ill Park. Improvements to Lite Cloud Park were also discussed wath the couty  Development funds for Cedar Hill Park were not inched inthe 2001 state budget Many thanks to Committee Members Martin Inkelas, Mary Westpfahl, Erie Nuttall, & Larry Desonicr,  x V6 nt mit ‘George Connor, Cini (2000-2001  "+ this adhoc commute was eaublisbe in Auput 2000, specifically to oppose large-scale commercial e-| lopment tthe core of Tranrway and Paseo Del Nort, within the bounds of Sands Heights.  "The commitee successfully organized a large number of Sandia Heights resident 1 oppose he proposed zoning change ata November 2000, County Zoning Commision meting. The property owner withdrew his 2ne change reqaes when faced with the Inge manberof Sunda Heights residents posing the request. Because the request was withdrawn, be is now blocked from roqesing ay ae changes fortis propery fr one yea  ‘The adhoc commitee's woth now a part of the espoablay of he Pas and New Development Commies. There wil be comtinod reviews of long tem plas for contin of effort inthe event the property owner requests any ther zoning  Simos ae ‘ew Office Report | James Andon, Oe Adinisintor Evento loves the sw SHBLA oi! We oped cu ew fein November of 2000  and have since ected many postive comments fom resins The conan of SHA operations hs a Towed sto fncon elie darcy ft meaberp service, nd prvi convonieieton fn a ia Highs fr ede  Iisa locshs, oar Architectural Control Commitee (ACC) and Coveaet Sappst Commitee (CSC) Ad-| intraive Assis, wes fom eur cfe roving rece wih an accnsble escurce for ifornton aod a sisunce egarng ACC and CSC mattrs Sho wotts dlgray wih reside, the Board of Dacctors and the {Coot to proces ACC opplition und sce CSC ranrs Lis's wok has proved invauale to weidest she keeps bat eadcats and tne Board of Dec up to date oping ACC and CSC mas, and gives sides the oportnty hve queso and concen enered ot rvaredthe appeyis comma  Trae rly enjoyed working wate Board of Dvir to desig nd tplemen ou fe procedure nd acaral operations Auch MBA cash, Ihave bers abl opp mich of what my ection haa inaght ne wd Rave taken grat neti parcipaing i eco hs bases fee, Imaintia evel databases icieding ont eat datas, onrepnd wh suis sad bedasna tnrlvd wi cu epmson end tly eign, ot ted prodce The Grand cer mang ta a usa meas of commancaton betwee aden he Beard of Directors, and the County regarding a widely varied range of issues.  ‘Sandia Heights Homeowners Association Members are welcome to visit our office Monday through Friday, | 12 noon to 4 pn and tise hs fits fsource wihin te commonly. We ae pleased ht more and mers esters we or oc ah mont  corer of Sa Rafal and Tramway Blvd Anew sol sop iste Ni ‘Watermeloa Mountain Montessor ares! Fer inforation, ll 1972418  Sean lA Oy fuse jou Noticed? Theretas been a change atthe Qual Ran Center atte |  ‘A B-Monthiy Publication Pages “The Grit  Communications and Publications Commit Tit Cook, Chait  “This isthe frst year fo his commie, which was split out from the Commaity Service, Membership and Comsmesi- ations Commie Rick Nelon, Harts Goodwin, Scout Fredrick and Jim Cook ae the meses of ts commute We're sponse for Prodocing publishing and dsributing the GRIT be-monhly newaleter  Prodocing. publishing and dstibting the Litle GRIT special announcements newsletter ‘Maing the SHIA website (wor sandihorncowner orp) Prodocin. publishing and dstibting the annual Directory of Residents ‘Maintaining the echinology infasrctre needed bythe SHIA office aff ‘Producing publishing and distibting any cther SHHA publications node  Weave 1 week vr closely with all od comaultes Stns much af the coment in these pblicanons comes rom the other SHA commits  ‘We're very imercsted in providing you a way to communicate with other members of yout community If you have something of imerest or portance hat you woul ike to share with the commanty, please submat a eter o arte fr p= cation and posting onthe website. Please call the SHILA office at 797-7793 for pubtcaton guidlines The more you Con eat, the more valuable the SHA pubsicanons wil be for everyone  ‘We're also very intrested i leasing bow well the current publications and communications channels are meeting your needs. Please help us make these publications as useful and relevant for you as possible. We welcome your ideas, suggestions, comments, and enticisms. Let us know how well we're mecting yout needs  "You can contact ws several ways, the Office phone number is 797-7793, the Office Fax is 456-8548, or Email us eo SHHAADM@aol com.  Communit rvice and  Membership Committee [Melanie Christman, former Chair {00-01}  ‘The function ofthis committe isto provide various community events in an effort to promote a bond among Sandia Heights residents  ‘With the opening of our new office, the committee sponsored the Holiday Open House, Residents had the opportunity to visit the facility, meet the staff and chat with board members and neighbors  Resident ‘coffees’ are held periodically to both welcome new resi- deat and visit with neighbors. The 7 Annual Wine tasting took place in March. As always, it was a very enjoyable evening, This year, in con- junction wth the cty's Spring Cleanup, the Homeowners Assocation organized a voluntec lator ick wp.  “Many ofthe activities above ae aimed at increasing membership |SHHA. The committee works closely with the Fxecutive Commate in planning the Annual Mecting for members Note: Ata recent Board of Directors mecting, due tothe magnitude of the former Community Service, Membership and Communica- tions Committees responsibilities, i was decided to divide the com= utte into two: Communications Publications will be responsible for all publications, the website and related activities. Community Service and Membership willbe responsible for social events and community fuoctions that serve the residents, as well as activities encouraging membership. The two committees wil continue to support each other as there is mach overlap of sespoasibities.  “Maureen E. Wea  High Desert Office  Kitchens « Bathrooms « Home Additions Fehodelingmadeeasy com 883-4040 Visit One of New Mexico's Largest Kitchen & Bath Showr0o! 2426.Washington NE @ biks. Sof Menaul)  y 5 a i i] i} = wf &  Sandia Presbyterian Church  re eatee xf  PREMIER SERVICES Repairs & Maintenance  Fast -Rfable- Reasonable ensed- nse = Band Pree Estimates!  (Our “Target” is your “Satisfaction”  Advertisements do not represent an endorsement by SHHA or its officers or directors  FREE CLASSIFIED AD'S FOR MEMBER’S CHILDREN To place an ad for member's children please call the SHHA office 797-7793, office hours are: Noon to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday  = Page  [AB Noathy Pobication Page 10 ‘The Git ETTER TO OUR NIEGHBORS:  yi rom. Ro lan and Cindy Wall  [A least 14 homeowners wote struck on March 17 when Ges were slashed, car windows smashed, home windows broken with rocks, and mailboxes destroyed. These attacks caused thousands of dollars in property dam- 2g¢ to indivual homeowners in adtion tothe inconvenicace suffered and cleanup efforts requted. Some damage cannot be calculated in terms of property damage and cox alone. Onc frightened couple hid in thee garage when the vandals attacked thei house. The hssband at this house has had thre previous heart attacks!  ‘A Sher deputy indicated ht the responsible vandals mot ky Ue ta Sanda eghs (SH. Indo, ect bon anda apprehended by SH Secuny were eats  “The cost for security 8 $10.25 a month (hss than the Albuquerque Journal) One homeowner struck on March 17 ta loses of $4300, which would pay foe one month's secunty for almost 25% ofthe homes in SH! In spite of the low monthly cost, oly $7%% of SH residents choose to pay for secunty, That i, roughly every other ome in SH proper pays for security: Ioncally, Seeurty reports that a high percentage of calls they recive come| rom individuals who do not pay for security.  ‘SH Services report that an increase i ss fom $10.25 to $16 per moath with the caren level of patcipa- ion would allow them to operate a second patrol eat. Ifthe participation atthe curoat fe rate could be increased 10 100% the hours and froqsency of coverage could also be greatly extended. Either way, such changes would go a oog ways toward clumunating vandalism is SHL  “The SHHA has expended much time and effort to find solutions to keep your home and family safe Ifyou are nt curently subscribing to SH Sccunty, please give serous consideration to doing 30. Please be aware that SHI Security isnot drecty associated with the SHA, but is directly under Sandia Heights Services. Those interested in signing up for SH Security services should contact Sandia Heights Services at 857-8989. Asasg- ificant point, Sit Security respondod to 4198 calls last year with the number ranging and this number has varied over the last several years from 2913 in 1991 wo a high of 4524 in 1996, "The SHHA Trafic and Safety Commazo> feels that many incidents of vandalism and crime do not get reported and therefore are not reflected in these counts. Therefore, the Committee has developed a brief survey that will be scot out to all residents with an upooming water ball The Commtce urgently ask you to take afew minutes wo fill ut the survey and rtur it tothe SHHA office.  If residents choose to take no acon, we can certainly expect an increase in vandalism witha corresponding decrease inthe quality of ife that we enjoy, accompanied by an increase inthe cost of insurance and a decrease in Property valcs.  wen: ‘Susan Carlow, former Chair, (00-01)  ‘The role of the Covenant Support Commitice (CSC) is twofold: first to educate residents about cur covenants; secondly to respond to resident complaints regarding possible covenant Violations, and to verify that the situation in question isan actual violation and to communicate with resides to resolve the problem.  During the past year the Covenant Support Committe has changed its approach to addressing covenant problems, We have limited the numberof letters seat to homeowners regarding possible covenant violations and attempted, when possible, to call esidents about covenant problems, and try to communicate with them vi the phone orn person to resolve covenant problems. Only aftr all asonable person to persoa and written efforts to achieve compliancs have failed, wall we request thatthe SHHA lawyer proceed with legal action  “This year the Covenant Support Committe plans to develop guidelines and a program of community  crducation to try and solve the "growing” problem of unwanted Siberian [ls in our community and the problem of ncrcased complains about {woes as scroons in Sandia Heights  “BAC:  Buu. ARTMAN  Wild Birds Unlimited  Mary Schmauss  Manager ¥ 505.883.0324 pia  Rs  505-888-0296 vax  7200 Montgomery NE Suit G “Aaquegue, NM 87109  ‘STUMPED? tf you need help designing your remodel, ation, ‘ornew home, or smply wish o discuss your options, cal the experts. We'l show you how easy ‘and enjoyable (eat?) & can be We can prove ‘excellent Sandia Heghs reterences oo  298-8900  mm Fortune Cookie it  addit office (797:  (CORB Nona Pac  SPECIAL REWARDS FOR INFORMATION le $2000 for major vandalism in Sandia Heights, $1000 and $5000 nal for arson at 96 Juniper Hill Rd. on Jan, 14, 2000,  93) for information.  Pagel  “Gen Desear State Bank  ALBUQUERQUE, NM  THESTOIACTIAM SILLS. ElitgHomes »:0u mars  379-2  BRAZOS LODGE AND RENTALS  4.5¢ per minute long distance! 21 boars day-7days awe!  Call |  The Grit 9181-72148 WN aNDaaNdAATY S{eIAP 4195 291 u aN GM AVA AOVIE gos VHHS 20 2  1 SOHN SIOIA % 8Uer | VHHS SHUT 600-DeeSSMYDseeerereeseerscereessey, | =e  | pure urna soft  yequios djaq oy puny ueaian e 40} QOOS |  | ‘sey VHS  0048 vey ‘brboay WN ‘snowanonsTy vemzweaca S09 Lin3s pase emuncoury se OP  avs aovisog'sn als daluosad Sandia Heights Wildflower Club Annual Garden Walk Diane M. Muelle, Vice President, The Sanda eights Wildfower Chib  Waterfalls, xeric pat oriental an souwesir sculpt, bird habitat, spaced grape vines, 2 lush oasis, tres, and an abundance of olorfl perennials set agains the Open Space delighted over 200 Sane dia Heighresdems andthe oests on Saterday Jane 9. 2001 daring the anna Garden Walk sponsored by ‘the Sandia Heights Widower Chub. Spocia recognition and appreciation is dae th owners ofthese lovely ‘gardens which lutte the wide ange of gardening opprtuntics available in Sandia Height: Jean & Don ‘Warhbum, Janey & Chuck Brink, Kay & Joba Kelle, and Jacque & Dan Calo,  ‘On Wednesday September 12,2001 members of The Sandia Heighs Wildflower Club will hold thei annual plc supper rom 61 8 pn a the Kiwanis Pavilion in the Flom Galego Picnic Area of Sins Park. Please nga salad, or aan dsh ora dest All else willbe provided To gt tthe Kiwanis avis ‘ntum lft atthe patshouse locate a the entrance to Elen Gallagos (no entrance fe wil bs charged and follow the signs oa parking area onthe ight Walk as from the parking ea.  'A the May mesting the following were slctd forte coming year Diane M. Misr, President, Knondch Payne, Vie President, Tom Caredge,Seretary, and Susan Cook, Treasurer. In addition Ju Ap- penvelle and Peguy Owen wil sve as Membereat-Large onthe Board  "To bscome a meme, peas snd. check for $5 pavable to Ue Sands Heights Wildflower Cab to Susan Cook, 1842 Tramway Terce Loop, Albuquerque, NM 871221 cover dacs for one year  SY yf  