THE  dia Heights Homeowners Association  August-September 2001  ABOUT THE URBAN COUNTY CHARTER COMMISSION By: David Camptell, Vice Chair of the Urban County Charet Ceemison Here’s your choice...vanilla in a cone or vanilla in cup. ‘Which do you choose? Not much of a choice, i it?  ‘That the choice the Urban County Charter Com mission has served up to the vote of Bemalilo County. Do you want the current county government, ot do you want the same lok, taste, fe, and temperature as the current county goverment?  ‘A year ap, voters throughout New Mexico gave [Abuguerqe and Beraillo Cousty the right to begin & tocess fo bra about fundamental reform m the cy and Suny’ local goverment structures and functors I ‘was a twosiep proces, each step being independent of the other  Fist creat a commision to recommend ew foam of Bernalillo county government, designed 9 mect the needs, demands and saniards of county goverment in the 213 century. Then ask county WOU 1 vote on the proposed new "Urban County Chart”.  ‘Nex, whatever voters decided the Charter, be fin aneter commission to recommend the combination uniation” ofthe cy and couty governments. In so boing, we could make local government more fice fan vemualy have tran bee and cost ess.  The Hew "Urban County Charter” bas just been drafted by the Urban County. Charter Commission (WCCO), Uafortanatcly, ts anything but "sev ad ian proved” Afr woking for 8 months, the UCCC has pro- ‘ced a very disappointing document. Iisa mir in tage of the existing county government; wih all of the Toth century inefBcieacien built in. AS former UCCC (Chair Barkara Seward put i, the Commision mised “once ina ceatury oppor)” wo bring about fundamen: tal reform ina goverment which was mach in ned of i  IF the County Commission chooses to place this draft document before th voters im December, Iwill ee= coameod that tbe defeted, as being at antiquated gor ‘rament model tht i fr less than what the citizens de-  ‘The good news, though i tha this fire by the LCCC bas tt slowed the pace of movement toward the tfietion of ety and county governments, This will be 8 good thing for Sania Heighs and cer curently unincorporated areas ofthe County  Why? Here's why:  1, Collectively, Sandia Heights residents spend nillions in sales taxes in the Cty of Albuquerque when they buy groceries, haircuts, furniture, and ary other ‘goods or services there. With few retail or service estab- Tishments cast of Tramway, residents must shop in Albu-  2. Sandia Heights taxpayers dost have a real voice when it comes 19 ‘where those taxes et spent because they doot live and vote within the city lim  3. Many Sandia Heights residents drive daily on Albuquerque's city stets and highways, and pay for thom with the gas taxes and sales taxes paid in the (Gity. But Sandia Heights residents dont have any say at al about how and where those streets are built, mai- tained, or used.  4. Sandia Heights residents dont have any rep- ‘resemation in determining the leadership, directicn, tain- ing or funding for the police offices that enforce the laws and provide emergency sorvices while Sandia Hips readems are ia Albuquerque  5. None of those milion of sales tax dollars paid to the City of Albuquerque come back to bencfit Jbomes on the cast side of Tramway in Sandia Heights  This is the dilemma of taxation without representa- tion, Sandia Heights residents pay through the nose for & ‘government that will ways and only treat them like vis- tore or tourists because they dost Rave a voting address vwithin ts cy imi  “The good news is that this is all about to change. In 2002 or 2003, the City and County will begin a process Jeading to the unification ofthese two goveroments. A ‘commission of 11 members chosen from the city and ‘county will begin mecting to draft a charter for a metro~ politan government, one that will epresent the citizens of ‘he entre area we now know as Bernalillo County. i will ‘be challenging job, but ne that should capture the inter- ‘tof people from Sandia Heights and throughout the ‘County. 1 want to encourage you to take part in this proc= ‘x8 and bring about a 21st century local government ‘Augunt Sepember 01 The Gat  ‘AB Monthy Publication  Jake Chaves visor  The committe has met twice since the new board was formed and we have added one new member, Bob Francis. We have decided thatthe fist onder of busi nes is to organize the work of the committee and streamline the operations. We will accomplish this in several ways, as follows: A standardized complain form will be used forall complains. ‘This form willbe available at the SHHA office or may be downloaded from the web st  Complains will only be accepted from Current members of SHHA. No anonymous complaint wil be | accepted. All complaints must be delivered to the| ISHHA office in person or by US Mail and must be signed by the complainant  Legal research is being done to see if the resident making 0 complaint must live isthe unit in which tho lleged violation of the relevant covenant occurs. The complaint must site what covenant the complainant says is boe= violated and the specifics of the violation.  ‘The commitee will review the complaint and deter mine if there is a violation. Objective criteria will be sed in viewing the complaint. Valid complaints be assipned to a committee member for resolution, We will contact the offender tree tines. The first contact will be by phone or in peson if possible to try and ne- gotiae and inform the alleged violator. If personal contact is not possible then a Certified, return Receipt [US Mail leter will be seat to the violator with a due  Members of the Sasa Heiges Witdfower Chub will Bold tht annual poduc| supper on Wednesday September 12, 2001 ffom 6 19 § pm. st he Kiwanis Pavilion in the Elena Gallego ics Area of Simms Park Peas ting sla, or a mom dish or 2 des  Burs will peak and show sides about "Sania Wild Flow- fers” covering the lacatioe of vziou wild lowers and the  VN oN  | WARNING | Slow down..  School has started | | Watch out for our | Children going to and waiting for their | School bus!!! |  or a nepatve, response received within two weeks. If no response or a nepatve response is received a thid| and final letee will be sent informing the violator that the violation will be referred to the legal advisor for further action  ‘fa complain is rejected by the committe, a letter will be sent to the complainant explaining the reason {or rejection. The commitee is curently processing | the complaints on file All curent complains will be processed  Effective August 27th the commitice will nly accept complaints filed using the new procedures  ‘Traffic and Safety Committee, esate,  AAA  Life in the Fast Lane  Imagine walking slong San Raficl where it crosses Laurel when a car whizzes by you at $5 MPH. That wouldn't happen i Sandia Heights you say. We lve ina residential aca, Well, ifyou were thereat 3:00 inthe after- noon of May 2, a car taveling weston San Rafael was clocked at SSMPH Just an anomaly you think? Well at 1:00 sod 5:00 onthe same afternoon, cas traveling exst on San Rafael were als clocked ut 55 MPH.  “These were the most excessive speeds clocked during the traffic spd study done by Bermalllo County at the request ofthe SHHA but these examples were by no means the only instances of excessive speed. The study was performed between noon May 1, 2001 and 2:00 P.M. May 4, 2001, The results cleatly show speeds fr in excess of| fhe posted speed limits as you can se from the graph below.  safely! Walk agains traffic whenever stance to sean oncoming car and gt cut ofthe way. Wear elec cee  Possible. This will 1 Me This il give you the bs  ‘AB Monthy Pubation  The Get  Thank you to all of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association advertisers and supporters!  (Comcast  rt Koraman  SPIRITS OF THE SOUTHWEST  ‘Souewent Futur At» Acessories  a9 Mana Oe. Abore  (coy arate uae a7  (605) 056-5253,  JEFF SPECK, C.a.n.  JADEmerprises Ine. Desig  Enchantment Speech Language Pathology Services, LLC  4217 Montgomery Bled. Albuquerque, New Mexico 87109 (505) 830-2220 Fax (505) 830-1400  Attorney ¥ Tones Smict  Thomas Smidt II TAX, ESTATE § BUSINESS Law, NA, LLC lazt7 MONTGOMERY NE ALBUGUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87109 (605) 690-2200 * FAX (508) 630-4400  ‘Sandia Environmental Designs _  Landscape Design & Consultations Cleanup & Hauling  Dan Cauditto (505) 886.6617  JOE McGEE’s PAINTING.  19 years experience  Rewanatie ‘icensed/bonded/insured Quay  ‘as! jgteriorexterioricepairs ork FREE. ESTIMATES  ‘Many Sandia Heights References  3u28173 exo) 263-9814  From the Secretary by Rash ravi, Assistant Secretary  Highlights ofthe minutes ofthe July 11th Board of Directors Meeting  ‘Guest rangers from the US Forest Service said they | it work wih property owner to eave tees abot repose The For Service il ok for oppo tis improve public cnt fhe Nato! ore fed ace Gea fotig is inted ty sly ot 0 ses to help exp pats cla, Pic way poss tytn Seca Highs, and whe the rains Blp Tam te rk, ower ae ued to we go! howe Teeping menus round tit bes to keep e wee io t mnie  The Prone ofthe Boar, Don Asnpu indict tat he SHILA of tobe wed for board and co ce woe, ba th ether eg fies, ke the ehrches ad Panes for Cire, are avaible for oe by bemeornrs fh other on oun mesg.  Tavs Goodwin, Char of the Covenam Condo Jconmitis, indcatsd at now foens me sve to opr complains, but al sch must bein wing and pgaetby he exencan  "afc and Saety Commitee Cha, Esc Nut reported that a survey of San Rafael showed the aver-| ace peed 0 be 3Smph with greater seeds reported fora sues wih posed Isp. Tis sous issue for the committee and several cnforcement efforts lb pat in place o Ke or resdens a  ‘Beginning August 13 overgrows vegetation on San Rat, Bobcat aud Deer wl be tamed by te cout, nes aware ques th ccs property 2t be med "Vanas was erin pion March and April and seeunty measures arc Deing implemented | to discourage any further misdeeds.  ‘Ay homeowners ar cordally invited to tend the board, Fr times and location Sw tandahomcownsr org Anda corset  welcome new members forthe vial work ofthe board  without making any changes  ‘We feel that this budget will meet the many needs of Sandia Heights i the coming Budget yea.  ‘The Parks and New Development Committee is spending 2 great deal of tine to try and determine how the $20,000.00 Open Space reserve can be best used to benefit al of Sandia Heights.  “The $20,000,00 legal reserve did not have to be ase this past year, and tis hope it will nt need to be used this coming year  This Budget will permit many improvements i the operation of the association. Continued vpdsting of the website is ome project. Another is improved computer nnd eral facilities in the SHA Office  ‘Any member wanting 10 review this Budget may do s0 by going to the SHHA office Monday through Fraday from 1) am to 3 pm If you are not a member of SHILA please call James  ‘Club Corner, dy: sim cook  Want to start a club? The GRIT's Chub Conner 8 just the place you've boss looking for. We've allocated  Se  “The GRIT Club Corner JCa tones at the SHHA coffce (797.7993) if you! 2B, San Rate, NE, Albuquerque, NM 87122. | Would lik to help on any ofthe common a beh Email ‘o_ SHHAADM@AOL COM yor have an interest.  POSTINGS: Hatlo My same lim Cook andl ve just recently moved 1 Sandia Heights from Seattle,  |Washington. I'm interested in starting or a ies m to 3p Sandia Heights Computer Cub if ene aeady ent es Pease send email to sandiaheightsscdncscape nef , Monday through Friday:  you know of a club or would like to form one  Ths for stp  (TAs ation  ‘Angus September ‘01 The Ont  THE COUNTY, CHAMISA A!  SIBERIAN  ELM REMOVAL**WHY?  By: Rick Nelo  Many residents have called or writen with com- plaints about the county cutting the Chamisa and Elm trees along the County owned road right of ways, la ‘Sandia Heighs the County owned road right of ways are at ast $0 feet wide, the pavement is usually 20 feet wide, that mans that we do not own the lad right pt the pavement. Our property line is on an average 15, feet away fom the pavemncat. It s their property and theis responsibility to kep i clear and safe  ‘These pi  [Not only are Siberian Elm trees against most of the covenants in Sandia Heights, they are a deadly twaffic hazard when growing close to the edge of the pavemest Many being romoved are big enough 1 cause serious damage to a ear or to cause death if a car ‘was spooding when it ithe tree.  The Chamisa growing out over the road are a hazard to walkers, bikers and auto drivers. In some ‘cases they extend over 4 fet into the rapt of way  ures tell the story of their hazard to life and limb  ‘On the lft the Chamisa have eversrown the Pavement by 4 fet, on the right they have been eared  ‘A person walking, a car, a double hi zone, and Chi  Another samp of Chamisa growing er pavement, double line, no paning me plae te go  This is another problem, blocking of intersections ty tres and bushes. This violation ofthe  ‘Code and property owners mast keep these iit ison county owned property  L___“when near and'a walker meet) =  Sandia Security is i  want this service eall  a part of Sandia Hom  =  Watch out for your Children and Pets Wild animals still think our foothills are theirs  Bears are on the prowl, 2 were recent Sandia Heights, here  [Beatin 1998 Sen  reported here in yome things Moti Barwa  1. Keep your tach in sturdy, clorsd 5. Donal melon rds fr 29 comune Keep tau cine lean and compos ples excep i winter  socsmely,urtad cucabe 6 Duttked wide 2'Dow' eye oaie,Dont bathe ny yearsyo may He 3 Feat ony soughtirdc! ola Senate and how tt his comes, fcrattiga Rencaperwiecdsact & youtz ater nar your home sore de Gane and Fu at 881-801  S — a Se ee  nto play with sakes, Soy dangers sake Snakes lik heavy vegetation, do  The mumer one concer is for hose ates with Your  a sick or rake  Cooler weather is coming and ook for a nice warm place to stay  Make oxtain you kop allot Ifyou havea woodpie outs Your door dosed, mice andras will consider placing aso ype of  sti the guage er howe before you pton deep inthe woe out of  a Snow Stead reach Keep your page in tig con- Never touch a dead mouse of rat ‘ner or se sh your bre has  ‘Check openings ke a dryer vent, certain what snake conain theyre soeened Animal Cont  “ages Sopher 01 The Gt  sent to the SHHA office by email, postal mal. fx. or may be dropped off i  ‘faselmen_ || person during SHH ofc hows. Leters ast be sbi by the fit of eh Daentma tt, | [See's peblication moth (cumently Febeay, April Dune, August, October, and  | [December in ord: to meet pblihing ches Pree seem [Sepsis in electronic form (onal text or Word Docamen format) ae ge | [preferred but legible primed or typed submissions will be accepted if time for| onssnSiicon —_Trerypng is avaliable Letras ms seni) thomslves and provide a phone | eg | |rumer for vertienion of auteship and permsce to polish The GRIT wil \cqieesancealo | | not pablish anoaymous letters and will not withhold the name of a letter author, | [tee overviem of the major pois. covering “Leters to the ator 3 aire Sat provided below. The complete policy statement is available at the SHHA Office]  office hours  Letters are accepted subject 1 space limitations Leters not published because of space limitations wil receive precedence for publication in the next issue if the topic is stl tmely and relevant  Leters will be edited for minor spelling, typographical, and grammatical errs. If a tener requires major revision before it can be accepted for publication, i will be returned 10 the author with omments on revisions required for the letter to be considered for publication  Good manners and common couesy must be observed in all submissions. Letters with vulearity racial slurs, mean-spirited or insulting tems,  Jack Wot, Vice Pres Gleam Kis, Secretary Rick Nelion, Treasurer LA Bsmowsky ‘Mark Boslough Dick Brackett Take Chavez Join Coley George Connoe Tim Cook Larry Desonie ‘heh Francie Roth Pacer Sco Frederick Richa Frederiksen aris Goodwin Aste Lugowski ae Muphy, one Null  Board Volunteers  hob Chan  “easete Cave on oman Dennis Thompson Ed Toll ‘coMMUNICATIONS AND Gora Neon  courage participation by the enie community. The GRIT will publish leters with differing view  1 year old boy with Bay Scour Training and 10 year olf sister  you are wway: Waterin, picking up mai, taking care of pets and MUCH MORE. Catt $56-1483 and atk for Jordan]  Contact Hilary at 856-7023  RESIDENTIAL  HKICOK OWNER — CHUL KNSID CONTRACTOR PHONE: GOM BI DED vERQUE NM  REMODELING  PREMIER SERVICES Repairs & Maintenance  Frat -Reishe-Rensoable [eens -Inred- Bonded  Q Frc Faimt e  Or “Target” is your “Satisfaction  Maureen £. Weaver  High Desert office  Kitchens » Bathrooms » Home Additions i¥higdelingmadeeasy com 883-4040 Visit One of New Mexico’ 4} 2426.Washington NE 2 bs. of Menaul)  Sandia Presbyterian Church  a el a  [Ronny Patan  [Membership/Community Service | Committee, Finian murphy, Chair  ‘The Major Goal of the Committee is  “To attract and to retain 100 % of Sandia  Heights owners as members of SHHA™ The Commitee believes that the  Your Comments and Suggestions  ‘The Gn is your community sewsleter and we | would like to have your comments and suggestions on ‘Once a month gatherings for new members at how to make the Grit somthing you look forward to SHIA office receiving and find useful. Here's how you can belp. 2. Once a quarter gathering forall new members|  “abe a lok a this ese of the Git and any pas i= tn ether a commitee member or othr board sues you may hve and take fw mimatcs 10 tl us ov ine could make the Grt beter for yeu, You do nave to fil outa form. Jost joe down some of your nd what hy are caren working om thoughts and drop them by the office or drop them in| 3. Review the letter going out from the President an envelope and mail them to the office. If you like, | for more ways to show new residents. why| You can just send us a quick email The adress ye SHIA membership is important for them ced are blow. 4, Encourage all new members 1 vist webile  Here's some of the things we would lik to know Let members know covenant are realy sail  (0 What articles and information im the Grit do ‘able at the office and on the website and the|  you find useful? ACCCovenaats Adminitrative Assistant i Ts there anything we could 4 to make it mre avaiable to discuss the covenants dung fice ‘filo you? tous  Ye ere ving missing you would ik tose} ]Posibe activites for atracting new members a ina sel eae of cman diced wer! Tere anything nthe Grit that i not wef to cnc for SHIA families, tke in days of yore, you? at either Elena ‘or high Desert Park ‘Would you like to write an article for the Grit? ‘ae We  (On what pic?  ‘What topics would you like to se covered in  thee”  Welt calle your responses with who re  |sponds and let you know what cave ‘Ke aaerafs ured show or an aque fi in ‘conjunction wih he annual Wine Tasing ‘A carmval for the kids i Sandia Heights hog inthe fe ek fe pairs pero Sr communiy oxy Paces involved to lp plan beatae yok naa Sanda Peo wir vite cu ens to Now Hows Mody gh Fy Sth ol wilag. Set up a commits 1 0 an 300 ps Explore the possibilty of obtaining tram dis- sal outs foe our members. Aly PO Box 20021 Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021 Email to:  shhaadin@a0] com  Wild Birds Unlimited  Mary Schmauss ¥  Vanages 505.883.0524 305-888-0296 rx  7200 Monger NE Sue)  ‘STUMPED? "you ned ap desing your remade aston, | options, cal the experts Wo show you how easy ‘nd enjoyable (aly) t canbe. We can provide excellent Sandia Heights references, 00,  Fortune Cookie It  office  fonthly Publication  [ SPECIAL REWARDS FOR INFORMATION $2000 for major vandalism in Sandia Heigl additional for arson at  =CHion Desert Stare Bawx  CONSTRUCTION & COMMERCIAL LOANS  "QUERQUE, SM  THE STOFAC TEAM SELLS.  BliteHomes » 0.0  BRAZOS LODGE AND RENTALS  ding to convietions: $1000 and $5000 Jan. 14, 2000. Call  1eh-eet ee Ww andwaNdaTy NOM Ywitd Sore sor oni myara y nny  WN 'anowaNoneTy Sie LIN ‘diva aovisoa's'n "aLs GaLNOSaud  wt SHIA pubic service notice of something of | interest im the Albuquerque area: | Join the Albuquerque Baroque Players Ona tour of Europe—No passport Re | ‘quired  | they play musle of Bech, Handel, Pachelbel  ‘apt 20:21, 2002  Tos aeptortat covslucee wan France  | Resting Baroase sances performed ty | si mioaneChereograpnes by susie |  sop tates fe Germany. whe |  hese: Bonnahum  Vv. Vv Tiisng ooqag pq) 40) SupVEM pu  oy Bu1O3 waupHD messmowien | parsers seq 1004S |  ‘he Pg ae:  ary Ann Shore recoraer muna Vi Baro ‘Silean Patrick he  Baroque Oboe  {near Juan Tava sna incian Schoo!) 3 Historie Ola San Yarere Ch  Tickets can be purchased at the door cor formformation about tekst purchases ‘Call 266-4480 or 286-7088  Semen Tee per $27 Senor TRE in iene  