THE  ights Homeowners Association  October-November 2001  This Grit is dedicated to The United States of America  and to those who were lost on September 11, 2001, their families, their loved ones.  Voi is se, mare ita to September 8  tas een com Myles Yori  One  Atte scan it dah ed om, ‘Webrcame on ele  ‘Ate cried cach aero the tai of the bring bung ‘Weberne one ar.  ‘Awe canto wang sd ope, Netteaneiee eran  Ashe ech nd pole offer fought Webcams or gene  ‘swe car kes in pene fr strength,  Awe tise text words of eeragenent ‘Nerpe cre nein  ‘Awe pve or blot ine wie ng, ‘Wetbtame en bats.  0 we roared year he Beas, ‘We bec ce fay  Aa we cid te of gent oes, ‘Webra oe vu  Awe el wh pb of sie oro, ‘We tecne cox pale  One geen  One ee  oe  Coes  oot  Ove ponte Weare The ower One  By Chey Semper, AD ‘A Bi-Menthly Publication  Page? ‘Occber—Novernber “01 The Ont  Architectural  Control Committee “ab M. Cty, Cai Ail by Frank Sep, Cerone mami  The SHHA Architectural Control Com mittee (ACC) want to emphasize thatthe restrictive [covenants for every unit specify that before [commencing any constraction which changes the| exterior appearance of a residence, the property owner is required to obtain project approval from the ACC  Emerior stucco colors are Himited to those included in tho SHHA approved stucco color list. Exterior painvstain colors must be very close to these stucco colors  The ACC continously monitors al construction in our area foe compliance with our Jcovenants. Meeting the legal requirements for your project will assure you and your neighbors off [compliance with the covenants and continued maintenance ofthe character of Sandia Height.  Please remember to Vote December 4, 2001  This Special Election is for the adoption or  rejection of the proposed Urban County Charter.  Ifthe Urban County Charter provide the County Home rule. This would make the county less dependant on State Goverament jon many issues incieding bonding ability.  The proposed Urban County Ci the charter unifying Bernalillo County and the| City of Albuquerque into single urban govern-| ment. The date to vote on City and County wnifi-| cation will be set after a separate commission, | slated for appoint  Rob Lopez of the Urban County Charter speak at the November 14th SHHA Board of Di- rectors meeting, you are invited to attend.  (On Sunday Onoda 215 the Sandia Poco Goverer and Pocblo Council weaed membars ofthe SHITA board and Gk fam is toa tour of poeblo facilites, tendance sta Baptxmal celebration meal, a great deal of “Lets commanicite even if we do  not ages on everthing” conversation, snd mach more. was @ wonderil experince fir al The stove photo tof Don  /Aanapa, HBA Presiden presenting  “Thank you" gif w Star Paiaa, Pachlo Governor. Special tks to Spine  Peston, Pueblo Public Relations Anat and ou Community Service and Membership Commer fcr thew efforts in making the erangements Photo by Astro Langs  Pages ‘Ociber—November “01 The Git  EDITORIAL jin Cook, Chair Communications wnd Publications We ofen hear the question ~ What in SHEA doing for Sandia Height? This is 2 goad  || ocsin hat deserves an answer, we hope the fllowing willbelp answer some questions.  ‘Traffie and. Safety: This commitee works with several deparments ia County ‘Goverment to reduce the baa on ar roadways in Sandia Height. Our roadways have special problems because auc, hkers, walkers and our ciliren must se them simultaneously, Etta to date include: Improving roadway visibility by twinning obsircting vegetation,  Parks and New Development: Ths commie along wit the Codar Hil seighteroat Ins beped ring about the purchase of property tthe corner of Cedar Hill snd Tramay and is  ‘ways to provide comma service events your suggestions. Thy provide information packets to new residents and periodic “Get To ‘Know You” gatherings for new residents athe SHHA ofc. Thi goa, uit SHHIA’s, isto be  sctivity rept fr Sandia Seer. Also i this sue, you'll notice we have inched tere sts in Some ats. We'll o more of his in fe fur no that we can provide ‘readers wih infoemation that can't be inciaed in the rit publication because of space  ‘SIMA Staff Available 1.0 a 13:0 pm, Monday hough Friday at he oie wt 20, ‘Sn Rafel NE Gust behind the Saba. Tey wil be happy to asst you with your questions  ‘yr find an opportunity to attend oe of thee meetings and leu mare about the SHEVA and fhe benetis of being a member  [SPECIAL NOTE: At the next Board of Directors Mecting on November 14th Rob Lopes, Coordinator, Urbax Couey Charter Cononssion will be the gust speaker and will be avalable to anewer questions. He wil reiterate thatthe proposed Urban Cony Charters [NOT the charter wnibing Bernalillo Coury and the Cy f lbaguryae into a single ban  ‘He wil reerae thatthe proposed Urbam Coxsay Charter is NOT the charter {ining Bernall County and te hy of Albuyuerque in a single ban government.  ‘Covenants Support Committee Dan OBryan Chair  | What are “covenants” as they apply to residents of subdivisions? Simply put, hey are rules and regulations placed on the lts by the developers ofthe subdivision that usualy remain i exis- tence forthe life ofthe subdivision. Normally i takes 2 vote of 75% of the property owners in that subdivision or subdivision unit to amend or change the “covenants”  cally adresses the rights and dusics of residents of that it to act to enforce compliance with that wit’ cove-| nants. All of the covenants are available on the Internet| at our website www sandiahomeowners ory, Copies ean  ing regular business hours, M-# lam ~ 3pm.  ‘In future issues of The Grit we plan to adress in each issue one covenant that applies tothe largest number of| subdivision units and isthe subject of the most alleged [covenant violation reported during that period to the [Covenants Support Committee. Hopefully, we can high- light potential problems forall of our use and help clarify the reasons why that specific covenant exists and must be enforced  Do the covenants cover thes issues? Yes, generally in one form or the ether. The older covenants refer to  property near us and generally reflect on our neighbor's sbilay to enjoy their property.  ‘Some trash, particularly garbage, attracts pests and| animals. Some of our homes are in close proximity and| odors can cross property lines, Some trash creates afr hazard particularly dry vegetation. Some trash, such] as broken down outdoor furiure or children’s play-|  “A Bi Monty Publication Pass The]  ITS HOMEOWN! JPPORTERS!  Pathology Services, LLC DD Victoria 8. Smid M.S., CCC-SLP 4217 Montgomery Blod. NE  Albuquerque, New Mexico 87109 (605) 830-2220 Fax (505) 830-400)  Thomas Smiatt Attorney V ‘rom sss'2200 Thomas Smidt I ATTORNEY AT As TAX, ESTATE & BUSINESS LAW, NA, LLC ary monTooueny Ne ALBUGUERGUE, NEW MEXICO a7 109 {$08} e90-2500 "FAX (505) 890-4800  ‘Sandia Environmental Designs Landscape Design & Consultations ‘Cleanup & Hauling  Dan Caudillo (505) 856-6617  JOE McGEE’s PAINTING  19 years experience Keaonable \icensed/bondedinsured Quali oe! nterioniexteriorirepairs Work FREE ESTIMATES Many Sandia Ucights References  ansi73 (mabe) 263.9814  Kitchens « Bathrooms « Home Additions Fetiodetingmadecasy 883-4040 Visit One of New Mexico's Largest ‘Kitchen & Bath Showrooms 2426 Washington NE @ bits. $.of Menaul)  i] 4 a i a i-} = w 4  Sandia Presbyterian Church oe Sindy mong Tn F] sun  @ Prudential  Petenea Proper  Repairs & Maintenance  Advertisements do not represent endorsement by SHHA or its officers  FREE ADS FOR MEMBER'S CHILDREN ase call the SHHA office at rough Friday 11 AM to 3PM.  [ABeNte on Page  a one te ho Th Conny wee coger Rickard Mar han vevened. carrots ae Posed oped inks Me hse aS ph  the safe specd. The key is safety. Mr. Kent Hendrick-| $ aa  om Bewailo Ceumy Foe Masel oda x ane  September, 2001 mectng that home fies are not a ma- 20020 er comrs San Hig. However, om hs  yase  Perr  on  a am  chaise trimming to improve visibility and provide pe- Odes Famine & Comps 2262.13 sin wh od dp sey ale cm ose tv wares wisn te Gt aut Bord ct  Sandia Security is not» part of Sandia Homeowners Assocation. Call Sandia Security 857-8924 and joint!!!  ‘A Bi-Monhly Publication  Communications & Publications  Committee Jim Cook, Chie  ‘Thanks tall the Grit readers who took the time to write a letter, call the SHA office, comment on the last issue, or send suggestions. I this issue ofthe Grit, you'll find a Letter section with letters we've received for publication, We're very pleased to make this sec-| tion available to our readers and hope that you'll con- tinue to send us your lees.  ‘Much of the communication we received concerned] the Urban County Charter article and the topic of City/ [County unification. Several questions were raised bout this issue and we'll be meeting with people who Fnave the knowledge to answer these questions. We were not able to get these questions addressed in time for this issue ofthe Grit but look for an article covering your questions on this topic in the next issue of the  (11am 03pm Mon Fri)  ‘We've printed a leterffom the UCC the SHHA just received. You can also find additonal informatio | sbout this topic on the following web sts:  hp? woew.bemcogovivce!  Bemalilo County luecc’  Main Page € Chizms foe Albuquerque/Bernalitio| County Government  ‘The second web site contains links to ATbuquerque| newspaper stories on this topic and a link to a discus-  pone abegov og/  ‘One reader expressed great concern about speeding along Cedar Hill Road, The reader pointed out that with a park planned for the corner of Cedar Hill and Tramway, there might be more children on the road in- creasing the danger of a serious injury caused by  SHHA financial incentives ot programs to help residents xeriscape their property Discounts on tram tickets for SHA Members ‘Use a map to illustrate street locations fo stories like the article on speeding, ‘Consider seting up an email notification system for security alerts Suggestions that require time to consider or imple- ment have been refered 1 the appropriate SHHA Com mittee for consideration. ‘The suggestion to incorporate maps and othe illustra 2 good one and we will do that  The suggestion about email notification for security alerts is someting we can putin place immediatly. If you are an SHHA member and would lke to receive email notices about information that concerns comm nity security, please send an email to  stha@sandiahomeowners.org requesting to be added toa security notification list. We will only use this ist send out security alert cmails end your email address wil never be disclosed.  If you're not yet an SHHA member and would like to  ‘Again, thanks to all who took the time to respond and share their perspectives with us. Involvement by every one in Sandia Heights will help 10 make the Gr a better newsletter fr the whole community.  TS eae fy wh ey Se ot 10 yar te fx bring ad Home  (Q) 2002 Residents Directory () ‘Is Your Listing Correct? by Yim Cook Weil be pushing te Sind Hogi Hemeownen Amsocinian 2002 Dory of Reson nny tod we ned your Sep. Tak lock te arom abel co Jour Grit You'll Weck hod ie uN) (uy 124867 Your name Your res  ‘Aboqnerase, NMLA7IZ2-x005 ‘The fist eter a parenthesis will be M for SHIHA Men-  formation in any of the following ways. Email Send an email with te core information to “hha endiahomewsner ra (Call 797.7193 between Tam and 3pe Mon — rier lave a message anytime ax the correct infermaton to 856-8544 (Mail a carder letter withthe core infrms- SHHA 2B San Rafael Avene, NE  SHIA ofc, 23 San Rafael Avene teween I am and 3pm Mon ~ Pei  ‘BAC: BILLARTHAN  Wild Birds VU a  Mary Schmauss —  STUMPED? you need help designing your remodel, aon, ‘or new home, or simpy wish to ciscuss your ‘optans, call he experts We'l show you how easy ‘nd enjoyabio (realy) &can be. We can provde ‘excellent Sancia Heights references, 10.  298-8900  Q SPECIAL REWARDS FOR INFORMATION leading to c  $2000 for major vandalism in  FAC TEAM SELES,  BliteHiom  BRAZOS LODGE AND RENTALS  ‘ln plore  ia Heights, $1000 and $5000 | Rd, om Jan, 14, 2000. Call |  The Grit ‘Sharon MeColium  FREE Market See mein 6) SSB  x2 Computer Classes for J Mature Adults  eginner’s Classes * Greeting Cards * Calendars Windowed 858 * Word Processing "internet-Mal * More!  858-1511  Are You Living Your Best Life? Support Siactare Toot »bsght Challenges Accounabiy » Main  aon" Encouragement Honest Feedback  Personal and Profes  al fr a haf a sale  o % ON ALL OUTDOOR POTTERY @°  Jactialope  ‘Church ofthe Good Shepherd, ‘United Church of Christ ‘T4Tennyoon. NE 96000 ‘ay Serves 8208 102088 neh Sd ry ODN Sant Sdn Gare ei) 8 ‘Progrosive, Opa ete Cs Rett So ow Taccptng Ture sonoma te  ips coe cea  Masters  822.9280  BIEN MUR  INDIAN MARKET CENTER  involved in the September | Ith terrorist attacks ‘SHHA believes in the principles of freedom that founded the United States.  A Bi-Monthly Publication  rag — TheGat]  ‘Ociober_Noverber “01 The Grit  Ifyou have questions about Home Rule and City/County Unification ‘Come ask questions atthe next Board of Directors meeting: Rb Leper, Cootdaator of the Urtan County Chanter Commision  Will bea gues speaker at our 7pm November 14th Board of Directors meeting,  ld at Willam Sibrava Sheriff sub station at Eubank and Helly  ‘Mr. Lopex wll address the isves as outlined in his letter printer below  (One Cive Para NW, 1" Floor  URBAN COUNTY CHARTER Aneereme Toe eres COMMISSION Fax (608) 768-4929  ewe  het Beso Coa, re an pa ck ef eb, 2 met do a  Blot retest ecurge le pride cat over nt once fr 1 re rept “es rea pve, De a Ca  October 8, 2001 ‘Dear Bemalille County Residents:  ‘The Urban County Charter Commission (UCCC) has recently completed its work in rating the proposed Urban County Charter providing for maximum self-government ‘The thinen members of the UCC, apposed by the Bernalillo County Board of ‘Commissioners, have recommended for adoption a proposed Charter consisting of twelve articles. The Board bas called for a special election to be held on December 4, 2001 wich wil provide County residents withthe opportunity to adopt cr reject the proposed (Charter based on ts eis  If adopted by a majority of the eligible voters in the County, the proposed Charter will provide Bernalillo County with home rule status. Simply sated, home rule grants the ‘County authority to exereselegisltive powers and perform goversmental functions not probibited by state law. The Charter, however, does sot provide for any additonal ‘imposition of tes unless approved by a majority of te eligible votes in the urban  the City of Albequerque into a single urban separate commission slated for appointment by January 2003 will be charged with dating the unification charter  In an effort to provide County residents wih information abou the proposed Charter, I ‘will make myself available st your neighborhood association meetings to explain home rule goverment, aicles of the proposed Charter and the differences between curent ‘County goverement and the proposed urban county goverument. To schedule a thity~ sine preset, you may contet Len Gone, UCOC Adina Oo, a  or udditional information bout the Urban County Charter Commission othe proposed ‘Urban County Charter please visit our web site at ww bemco govfasee.  = = (> Lopez, Coordinator  | Urbon County Chater Commission  Security’s mobile number 263-4654 SANDIA HEIGHTS SECURITY  ia “e {A division of Sandia Service Sandia Heights have been the targets of recent mail hei. =  wot  This is 2 good example of the type of alert that . — he pe we ca ee send 0 SHIA membre by sma you are an SHHA mets member and would lie to receive security alerts by email, | Cry please send an eal to shhacumdahomeowner org, | ers feng be ale othe SHIA sty station | aad TE yore ot yet an SHIA mont, jou can contact Se ad ae  Sandia Heights Wildflower Club’ i ae The November maxing schedled fr Wain ohn became dag  any November 1h, s 7:30 pam ate howe of Khoa a snd Ea Payne ot 2874 Broward NE (ont wes se ar ae cared  one  ee  xh ira  Sete dem  Deadline for submission is November 16th  Crime Prevention Tips  Te beng in om a ae  groups have done a tremendous job of educating resi-| dens and supporting the concepts advocated by the| it. Consider the following infor  Evaluate your existing lighting and pay particular attention to access points such as entry/exit doors and windows, Make sure that each area has ade- quate illumination so that you neighbors ean see] any suspicious activity occurring on your property. Consider adding motion sensors to lights in remote areas. (SHILA comment: any outdoor lighting ‘must comply tothe covenants of your soit and the Lighting code of Bernalillo Code}  Each exterior} door should be metal or slid core  ‘with 3.4” screws that sccae the pi frame. (exterior doors should be  with 180 degre ee viewers.  Trim all bashes and shrubs below the window level and vp fem the ground. Trim mature trees up ta level 6-8 fect above ground. Eliminate hiding | places or areas tat provide someone the oppor nity to enter through » window without being 90- teed  All primary window locks should bein place and fully operational Install secondary thumbscrew Jocks on guide ris. Place them ina location that prohibits the window from being opened moe than 2 few incss. Alo, make sure al serens ae in Place and secure  pro Dowel rods and “charley bars" are secondary meth-| ‘ods to secure the doo, but make sure the primary  ber, valu, and any other distinguishing features all valuable property in your home. Store this infor-  ‘vido recording of the items is also recommended, Engrave a number on the back of each item that is signifcast to you and place the number on your record sheet (Note: Do not use your social security| lumber to eliminate identity thet) Stolen property| 1s often recovered and in the absence of an en-| ‘gaved mmber, you have n0 proof the ems are yous. The recorded items can also assist with in- surance claims.  HAVE A WONDERFUL  ‘The SHHA Office will be closed November 21, 22 and 23rd and open again Monday the 26th  We) pile ee) lee ee i  0 Eninine pees ami0-958 1  ev anowanone uaa Sica ress cero eee ae ‘and is oaiwosay Vars “ais caniosmie Lights in the Heights ‘non-profit commen fat  Would’ it be fan to be part of somthing which wil celerate the holiday sasen, enhance the sethtics of our neighrhood, make Sandia Heights special in sil one more way, increas the Sense f community in ou eighborhond, and be jst plain beaut? Just such project is ere Lights i the Hehe sa project ofthe MembershiyCommanity Service Commitie to make lctric Juminaraavallale to Sandi Heights residents at a discount. These ae the same luminaia thal you se esewhere at the retal pice '$20/t. We are making them avalablep Sandia Height residants a $13.25/st pls tax fra tal of $13 9), ‘There ae fen huminaria in a se, covering tity fet. Made in New Mexico, they have plsicunilfames,alloweathr plastic bags, and wat candle shaped bulb. They come wth instructions and disgrams. 1f you've Installed etre laminae, you know that it can pesca a challenge! So were asking people to share experiences with ‘ataching them to stuceo or her surfaces, or wih ether ways of displaying them. What works? What have you tried tha die work? you have special qualifications that make you an expert plese lt us know. Well compile the information and distribu it. ‘Sandia Heights resent Kit Andersen, a profesional organize, has volunteered 1 organize the projec. A the request of the Membership’ anmumty Service Commitee he wil purchase the crc laminar sts rough er company, Aeron Organizing Systems, passing along the wholesale pice to SH residents (adding only the required tx). Her husband Larry wil compile the ‘aformation on stachig/dioplaying the lumiaria. The Andersons and eer volunteers wil pick up the pre-ordered and pre-paid Fuminaria sts and have them available for pick-op at the SHH office ffom gam-l pro on two Saturdays, November 24h and December Is Clip and mail to Anderson Organizing Systems, 150 Whitetail Road NE, Albuquerque 87122-1921. Deane for receipt of order and check ls November 10h 00 miss the deadline, again pet year.  Name — _ Ade Prone mater — 1 woul lito order “ts of ainarls @ $1 9st which inches ak  My check # de out 1 Anderson Organizing Systems, fr S_— (1396 xe  ‘number of) is eclened. Iv enced teas cr experince for etaching or paying eectrchaminaria. Nivea rock, SUV oe othe mat vec, ond would br wing to ep chp cass of manasa ets during sien hous ‘he week of November 1th. Please ell me  1 amie are willing to help give ot the luminaria sets tthe SHHA office on November 24th ¢ December Ist. Pleas call me.  