roy Have a r=  Wonderful Holiday  Bw anda SE=  % Happy -% New Year  Letter from Sandia Security Dear Sandia Heights Residents:  In response to the letter submited by Mr. Sauvage in the most recent Grit, I feel some clarification is in order.  ‘There are approximately 47 miles of road in| ‘Sendia Heights. Sandia Heights Socurty operates a sin- gle vehicle to patrol these 47 miles of rods. A new vehi- cle was purchased in December of last year. Since that time the vehicle has amassed a total exceeding 42,000] patrol miles within Sandia Heights. We have therefor averaged 4.200 miles per month patrolling within Sandi Heights. That translates tothe security vehicle passing by your house approximately $9 times per moath. These mileage figures are provided to SHIA. for publication in|  Jestered into a contract. with High Desert Homeowners Association. to operate patrol service in that comm nity. We purchased an identical vehicle to accomplish  Sandia Heights, this requires the use of Paseo del Nort ‘Vehicle. When a call comes in tothe patrol  just that, puro. We have virtually the same personnel we had when Will was her, aside from the aforementioned| addition,  tis my sincere hope that this letter will clarify any questions you may have with our service. If any|  3 Ps  Security’s mobile number 263-4654  SANDIA HEIGHTS SECURITY {A division of Sandia Service Phone 857-8924)  speEEEEE 599589283098993¢  258  it 35  ‘ 3 ‘  ooo ce  bs 4  3  RAY  fwth thm) and ae quickly available when / if « problem rises. They deserve plas!  Louise and Alex Mako  Kitchens + Bathrooms + Home Additions  y ] a ry [=] i=} = a ©  Repairs & Maintenance  Advertisements do not represent endorsement by SHHA or its officers FREE ADS FOR MEMBER'S CHILDREN ace an ad for member's children please call the SHH office at 797-7793  (Office hours are_Monday through Friday 1AM to 3PM.  THANK YOU TO ALL OF THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION ADVERTISERS AND SUPPORTERS!  Enchantment Speech Langnage  (Comcast Pathology Sorvieen, LLC  art Kran re cage tere Sas reset Victoria S. Smidt M.S., CCC-SLP 4217 Montgomery Blod. NE Albuquerque, New Mexico 87109 (05) 830-2220 Fax (505) 830-4400  Thomas S Attorney V "ro5) e:0.2200 Thomas Smidt I!  ‘TAX ESTATE & BUSINESS LAW. NA, LLC ‘ais Montcoweny Ne  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87109 (605) €30-2200 > FAX (908) 630-4400  Ue, #51199  11010 Del Roy NE  ‘Nbuquerque. NM 87122 Sandi ironmental D boo} se-0339, Landscape Design & Consultations Cleanup & Hauling  JEFF SPECK, CR JaDEnterprises ne. Desigr Dan Caudill (505) 856-6617 wn iadeenteroris  JOE McGEE’s PAINTING  19 years experience  Renenahe jcemebondedinsured — ty  em! imeriieteriorirepniry Wot FRER ESTIMATES  Many Sandia Heights References  332.8173 robe) 263.9816  ‘ABi-Monthly Publication  Page 7 The Grit J  ‘The Sandia Mountain  Settlement Agreement ‘Stosart Paisano, Governor of Sania Pueblo  ‘The most important spec ofthe agreement belive. i that Ua pronlde el and acing assurances thatthe pristine face of ‘the Sond wil romain is current wildermes state and {forever protected rom development. Atte sme tne the area trl be acesibe, ati ody, for the enjoyment of future [feneratons offer naar overs aed emrormentalsts:” ‘Sia Sp, Suda Cnty Comme Chr, 12710) Sine its asnouncemest in Api! 200, te Sania Mountain Settement Agreement fas been atopic a significa ‘ontovery and misulerstaading. Much o the opposition to {he Agree spear to be based on misconceplons and ‘ears, not facts, allowing is some Brief Packpound on the Setizment Agresmentand 3 summary of some of is ey ‘provisions ask that each of ou take the tine o read the hte Agseemeat ask questions ani expres Your views: By ‘oing 20, and by taking with each other and with Forest Service oficial it ismyslacere hope tat we can ed the <israsand fears and work together to implement the seulement  ackground ofthe Settlement Agreement  >" Negotiations occured over 2 period of more than 15 ‘month and involved rpresexatives fom 3 federal <epartents, the Puebla the Tram Company, Beralilo ‘Couny, the City of Albuquerque nd the Sandia ‘Movin Calton.  > The County, the City and Coalition withizew fom tbe egottions before the Agrootent was Saale to pursue “ure tigation but the remaining paris worked to ‘ensure that he lal aprement uly protected te Interest ofine pares who withdrew.  > In November 2000, the County and Coalition's appeal of ‘ho federal sour devishons inthe Psblo's for Was ‘dlamised andthe Pueblo’ claim sen ick tote Deparment of iserior  > Imaccondace withthe court decisions, and at he writen ‘equest ofthe Couty and Colton. the Deparment of Interior undertook to resonsiser the Pusbi's cls, eve al interested parties the opportunity to submit any ‘ekional information or argument, and onthe ast dey of| ‘he Clinton administration issued 331 page legal opinion Fulingin he Pubs favor This was afer naling the strict and legal isucssurounding the claim. Despite ‘his opinion, the Pueblo, the federal government and the ‘ram Company remain commited 1 the Setement Agreement until itexpires on November 15,2002 ‘Congress bat ut then to Scie whether OF to past legislation siping the Agreement, thereby making permanent.  Key Points About the Settlement Agreement  The Area's wilemess designation emaits andthe Area  ‘ued potstons again the possiiity of development orehges  > No prt ofthe National Forests transfered o place into “nut” forthe Pueblo and future Pacblo leaders aot later sue o charge the Agreement. Once Congess ratifies the Agreement, oly Congress cas change i  > The Puclo’s cli is “permanently extinguished”  2 Private property interests are protected and eahanoed by gurantee of clear tle continued count jurisdiction, 0 {arber development of National Forest lands, and bythe Pcblo's gating of pernert rad right-of-way aed permanent iin corrsrs forthe San eights and ‘Tier Monto subdivisions, These right-of-way well 8 inponaat wal ight-of ay, across Pueblo lands will ‘nly be grate ifthe Satlement Agreement i tified by ‘Congres ad cnet be obiined ou itpton. ‘Without hem, cena ell and roads (including Foret ‘Road 333 that provides the only road access ito Juan abo Canyon) a in wespais a legally cou be closed by the Pueblo,  ining and enfereable against the Pueblo, ad inclaes a waiver ofthe Puls soverign iin permit ui to enforce it  > Ttisnot ambiguous: it grant the Pueblo certain speci, Tinted igh and specially provides tat t~shall be deemed to recogsiae nly enutrated rights and interests, nd no ational righ, interests, obligations, or dues Shall be create by implication"  > ThePuebio has no right close any pars ofthe Arca, even temporarily and cannot “oxcue persons oF {overamcnal exis fom the Area™  > Tedoes not expend hunting i the aca, i wll continue be lite o thse ares, Sesons and means (ie. no Firearms) permed under State and Foret Service laws and repulsion, and te Pueblo in exercising jursiction ‘over our own meters is specifically required “to ent, ‘masa so enor” such regulations  > The Pucblo’s tational and cotrl uses ofthe Mountain ‘will continue wo bein fill accordance witht wilderness designation and character,  For the Putblo, the Settement Agreesent presents a «iBeult compromise, but one wich we were wii to accep Jin order to ans the protection and preservation ofthe “Moanin and our ight to continue to ue i for eal and religions purposes,  closing, once again urge you wo lea for yourself bout the spectcs of the Setement Agrotent. The fll text of the “Agieementis available on our website at  ‘wae amndiapachlamnan or pease feel fret call my office 1867-3517 torequest copy. Iyou have questions or want to learn more, contac oal Forest Service officials or us Thankyou and happy holidays  “Sandia Pucblo’s “3 Kings Day” Celebration is open to the Public. Date: Jannary 6,02 Time approx. 1:30AM to 3F™  (ABEMontiy Publication  “Three fr November 0 te id meh of cw Badgt yor  Assets and Liabilities ‘act 11/3001  Chstandin Manis «$7,788.61 CD's eal Base 48585 68 Pty Cash ‘woo  Total Cath and in Banks $53,474.29  5 10.95.56  2220.16 lms  ‘Operating Reserve $45,585.68 Collected advertising for 32002 Directory & G  Aichiectrs Control ‘Adversning  Interest eared Members des  Collection of Doss N50 36 Inmurance 309.00 Office, le, ui  telephone, suplies, Ble 1.427 84 sat 22816 To Postage Meter ‘00.00  tal Out 192079  Info over outflow for manth___$. 3.60.19 NOTE: The $3.60 19 serps was ofr Conse the ‘recep of prepa advert forthe yar 2003 thats shown as heb.  A detailed Beeson af thi report in vale for SHILA members te examine st he SHA oe fron amt 3pm Monday-Friday. you call ex I wil met you  Do you have an inguiring mind and an open heart? Would you welcome an opportunity to explore the meaning of life?  Sandia Presbyterian Church invites you to preview the world-acclaimed ALPHA. Video Series with dinner at the church on Tuesday Evening, January 15,615 pm.  Sandia Presbyterian Church 10704 Paseo del Norte NE Albuquerque, NM 87122  WANTED- Boulders, Yes, boulders!!!!! Preferably large ones, If you need to remove rocks For any reason, please call Doug Flax at 858-3406 ‘Thanks!  Experienced 15 yr. old babysitter. Great with kids.) — ‘Available afler school and on weekends  Call $21-0482 and ask for Becky  12 year old girl with YMCA Baby sitter training Available for baby sitting and pet care Contact Hilary at 856-7023  1B year old boy with Boy Scout Training and 10 year old sister available for babysiting and house sitting, Contact Patrick or Calisa at 856-1283  EXPERIENCED 13 YEAR OLD WORKER!" Good for doing odd jobs around the house while you are away: Watering, picking up mail, taking care of pets and MUCH MORE (Call 856-1483 and ask for Jordan!  THINGS TO NOTE  The Sandia Mountain Coalition [SMC] has a new address, iis: 24 Tierra Monte, ABQ, NM 87122.  The Sandia Pueblo Supporters [SPS] Mail: PO Box 93716, ABQ, NM 87199 imail: pueblosupporters@aol.com  Wild Birds Unlimited  ‘hmauss  ‘STUMPED? It you need help designing your remodel, adion fot new home, Or sanply wish to ciscuss your options, cal the experts. Wel show you how easy ‘and enjoyable realy can be. We can provice ‘excetent Sandia Heights references, 00.  Fortune Cookie It  i 3:  CONSTRUCTION & COMMERCIAL LOANS  ‘THE STOFAC TEAM SELLS,  liteHomes «ois |  4.5¢ per minute long distance! 2a hoursa day? day  omen.  ) SPECIAL REWARDS FOR INFORMATION leading to coms Axo nit per ian. 14, 2000." Call j  Chuchot the Good shphora ‘td Chafee Staron MeCollm 784 Tomson NE ‘soe mecol sever ee yea sumer SySrcnfce fad 0 Seamer Taaag” “Gomme  Computer Classes for Mature Adults  Masters Linda Caldwel, cas, cmt  Beginner's Classes * Grotng Cards * Calendars Windows® 9518 * Word Processing *InemetE-Mal * More!  858-1511 - ee ana at at  Are You Living Your Best Life? Sigrid Gustafson, CPC 822-9280 Person and Profesional Coach pL hd  pecan enrteerearm pe eaad  S 7*0N ALL OUTDOOR BIEN M1  , Trostional & Contemporary Sewey, Potten Keech, Fetishes,  ss 51-9013 "ao 0 SD,  SHHA extends its deepest sympathy to families and friends of victims involved in the September 11° terrorist attacks. SHHA believes in the principles of freedom that founded the United States, [ABI Nraiy Paitin  Seecoa oo  Paget The Gra Lower Your Lower Your Property Tax. Continued  Property Tax If you apply for these exemp-  tions before May 2002, you will re-  There are wo ceive your exemptions for property  exemptions that will re A | taxes from November 2002 on. This ice the amouat of property x you article is the result of a suggestion from fave to pay. The fst ccmption i vale Grit reader able to homeowners who reside in thet home. Thi is the homestead exemption sad it will reduce the taxable assesed Salue of your ome ty $2000. The ee: Club Postings ted exempdin is avaiable © veteran Of —Infrmatn shut tbe US armed services (r thet surviving exiwing rope med Spouse) who served daring WWI, fqn tac WWI, Korean War, Viet War, o¢ ‘prope the Persian Gulf War. This exemption will ako reduce the taxable assem Serabble: a fan marred to ‘ale of your home by $2,000. confirmed ‘nonScrabble looking fr ‘You can claim the homestad thre people to se up monthly oe bi exemption by simply signing a form at monthly games. Prefer people who are the County Assessors oie You aly faly good players, yet consider the fun fave todo this once sad you will receive of playing more important than win- the exemption as long 8s you occupy ning your home. This exemption wil reduce Rotate providing location. Rotate or ou asta propery kes by about Se. share providing snacks ad drinks “To claim the veteran's exemp- Leave mesape at 797-061 tio, you need fill ou form and re- turn ialong with a copy of the eters DD2I4 discharge form showing dates of ‘Computers: Hello. My same service and proof of New Mexico cit Jim Cook and T've just recently ~enip tothe Veteran's Service Office in moved 1 Sania Heighs from Se- Sota Fe, This office will return cere atl. Washington. Tim interested in cate that you thea tke tothe County AS- Staring ce nding a” Sandia Heights sestorofce to claim yout exemption. Computer Chub if one already exists You oaly tave 1 claim the exemption send’ email to jeook@sermail.com if nce, This exemption will reduce your you know of & club or would like 40 annual property taxes by about S40," Formone. The County Asseso's office is located at 301 Tras. For your conven- ience we hve obusined the application Sandia Heights Widdflower form for the vetcravs carifcate you Club: Sandia Heighs residens are need 1 chim the Yeterats exemption welcome to stead’ any of the i You can pick up this form atthe SHA pouty meetings. To Become a mea effice located at 28 San Rafael Avemie fer, pleasesead check for $8.0 [er during posted office hous. Simply fl- Gye years ds] tothe low the imtractions on the back of the Sunde Heighes Wildflower Chb foe to obtain your veteran’ certificate "So Saran Cook forthe property ax exemption. 142 Tramway Terace Lp, ‘Aboquerges, NM, 87122  Continued on op of next colon  1k yas necessary for Dae O'Bryan to resign foe the Board of Disectors for personal reasons in dedication and bard work i reaty appreciated and wil be missed  What Gets In The Grit?  ‘One of the challenges forthe staff of any news> Jeter is what content shouldbe included inthe newslet- ter. Since the Grit is a community newsletter, the con- tent should be of relevance and interest to the commu nity at large. We dedicate space in each issue forthe SHHA committes to report on ther activities and sc- ‘complishments since they are working for the comm nity and you can’t get this information from any other source  Another major souree of content deus is the feedback and suggestions we receive fom the readers of the Grit For example, the Lower Your Property Tax article in this issue was the result of a suggestion we got from a reader.  ‘We are also Jooking through old issues of the Grit and bringing back things that seem to be of interest suchas the Sandia Security call statistics.  ‘We also try to devote space to topical issues such as County Home Rule. Topical isues often have ‘more than one perspective so we will strive to make space forall perspectives on an isu.  Ifyou are not an SHHA member please join,  Rosouncounympurs 8 VENIS HL 160 505)  rruaye sabontoaly  IN Pras  mpeary sono PS  In this issue, you'l find two articles about the Sandia Moutain dispute. The Co-Chairs ofthe Sandia Mountain Coalition wrote one article. The Sandia Pucblo Govemor wrote the other article. No mater hich of the two articles you most agree with, you may lear something new by reading the other article. The Grit is not taking any position oe this dispute, we feel ‘our reasonabilty isto present ll sides of all issues,  ‘We will ry out new content ideas occasionally {hat we think readers may find useful or interesting, As always, we invite your suggestions and comments, citi cms, or compliments about the Grit. We've set up = [permanent cma address to receive content submissions and reader feedback. Pease feel fee to send us an email at  grit@sandiahomeowners.org  ‘We need your help to make the Grit usefil and interest- lng to you. Thanks to all the eaders who've shared their thoughts with us 30  The Grit tat your help and support will be greatly  appreciated by your neighbors, $5.00 is the small monthly fee. Call 797-7793 to join. 