Voluse 2, Number 9 —\_  < —_  meowners #E ssociation RESIDENT'S NESgAGE  Your SHH Board has had their annual meeting which has resulted in the addition of new Board members and the subsequent election of new officers.  Regretfully we have lost a number of individuals, due to expiration cf terms, who nave performed in an outstanding  anner and have devoted any years in community service for the individual Nomeowners of Sandia Hetgnts.  The new Board wants to extend to them cur appreciation for these outstanding efforts on behalf of the entire community?  Lynne Behnfield - President Don McBride ~ Secretary Judy Harris = Publications Manager (The Grit) Bill Jackson ~ Community Affairs  In addition we wish to thank all other Board mesbers who have served abbreviated terms aver the past year - including Billye Gassby, Hans Kresny, Errol LeCesne, ané Jack Wirtz. We have also had many volunteers serving on various conmittees or helping to do mailings to the community who deserve special thanks for their efforts.  Over the next few months we will be setting our objectives for the coming year. High on the agenda will be the completion of the water intervention program, roads and safety, improved security, covenant and architectural control programs, strategic planning, direct services to members, parks and recreation, and, if needed, mutually agreed improvement of services presently provided by the Tram Company.  It is obvious that the strength of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association is highly dependent upon the total supgort of its menber ship. fs your representative in ever increasing dealings with the County and State agencies, as well as the transfer of service responsibilities from ‘the Tram Company/Developer to your Hoseomers Association, we value your communications as to what you feel should be accomplished by your Board.  Anew directory will soon be distributed naming your SHHA representa tives. Please contact them if you wish to influence Board progra goals, or to propose any new activity which could require Board action. Thank’ you for your assistance.  leonard DeLue, President.  Water Rate Intervention. View from Jack Rabbit Hi Road Shoulder Clearing, RV Travel Group.  Holiday Bazaar.  ‘SH Directory, SHHA Board a Newsletter News (THE GRIT)... 1012217 BCFD #5. :  SH Social Brigge.  Pace,  WATER INTERVENTION REEORT  Recently you received notice from the Sandia Peak Utility Company of 4 proposed Stipulation which they were able to obtain from the New Mevico Fublic Service Commission Staff partially in an effort to pressure the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association inta’a settlement without a nearing. In the event of a stipulation, many of the primary Lesues in this rate case would not become a matter of public record, ner would the Commission be faced with making a difficult ruling or have to confront the remaining  This notice by the Utility Company requested that you communicate your support of this Stipulation to your Sandia Heights Homeowners Association. We have, to date, rereived no communication in support of this Stipulation, not even from company officials who we usually hear from when they are in disagreement with us. Although your Homeowners: Association has some acceptibility with parts of the Stipulation, this document does not address the primary issues of this rate case. | As a secondary issue, the Stipulation is unfair to residential users of more than 9000 gallons of water. The Utility Company did not tell you that they had Stipulated to rates for commercial entities utilizing 1-1/2" and 2" meters which will result in reductions below what these entities Currently paying. Naturally someone has to pay for these concessions this case it will be ri month.  Your Intervention Committee believes that all commercial entities, including hydrant users, should be paying higher rates than residential customers, since they are placing higher water demands on the syst These commercial entities include the Tram Conpany, land and road devel oper entities, Bernalillo County road maintenance activities, the ice rink, restaurants, etc, This 18 common practice in most other Utility Companies.  ‘Ae we have previously stated, this Stipulation does not address many of the primary issues including rate base matters, leasing activities, company organizational structure, engineering deficiencies, unaccounted~ for water, excessive operating costs, etc., all of which nave a bearing cn rates and future conduct of the Utility’ Company.  ‘The legal history of this Intervention has been unbelievable. The transcripts and legal motions will” speak for themselves. This history, riddled with delays and restrictive discovery, includes a proposed General Order 39 investigation by the Commission Staff which purportedly satisfied their concerns, and was therefor vacated rapidly. However, review of the Commission Staff findings, coupled with our discoveries would indicate that this investigation appears incomplete.  Subsequent legal motions by the Utility Company, Commission Staff and Conaission have resulted in a less than satisfactory discovery phase for the intervention. The Commission has placed Protective Orders, which to this date have precluded us from reviewing our own expert witnesses? testimony, a= well as the Indian Well Lease docurents. Recently an additional Order has been issued precluding direct testimony by the individual interveners. It is probable that our expert witness will be confined to. certain specific issues and that the hearing scheduled for Sune 22, 1985 will in part be declared confidential — saterial too Sensitive for Sandia Heights Homeowners. We wonder if our water company ould be involved in top secret government operations.  In Gential users of more than 9000 gallons per  Water Rate Intervention, continued on Page F  s+sWATER RATE INTERVENTION  Wo understand the motives of the Utility Company in desiring confi- dentiality, a stipulated settlement or a restrictive Nearing. | They view this intervention as an unwarranted challenge by a minority into the management of the Utility Company. In addition, no one appreciates an audit. We respect that position, but disagri  We “are, however, “having difficulty understanding Commission inten- tions. They have a reputation for being an i@partial body, having fully regulated the Utility Company, both past and present to protect the public’s interest.  In any event, your Intervention Committee feels that completion of the hearing process utilizing our expert witness testimony, coupled with the introduction of all allowable intervenor concerns, will establish a legal record which will enhance any future actions necessary to Dri} the remaining unresolved issues before the Commission or other entiti ata later date if required.  The many complications, delays and legal actions required to bring this Intervention toa hearing has placed a financial strain on our resources. Your Sandia Heights Homeowners Association and 320 individual family donations of $30 each has  for the rest of the community. All available SHMA funds have now been allocated, Hopefully this intervention has already brought substantial change in’ the regulatory process and the conduct of the Utility Company. Perhaps on an individual basis you nave, or will, realize tangible benefits, We have done our best.  Therefore, if you have not contributed, we are in need of your financial support of 430 to complete our legal expense obligations. " We can only be successful through maxieum community participation. Our attorney and expert witness will only keep talking if they are funded.  Please send your contributions tor Sara Warford, Treasurer, SHHA P.0, Box 20021. Albuquerque, NH 87154-0021 We appreciate your support in allowing us to complete this program. Tf you need additional information, contact your intervention conaittes: Leonard DeLu  Bill Stabler Jona Warner,  seree+294-8451 Charles Dykeman.  290-8525 Sara Warford. 296-7358  291-8488 293-4367  full report will be made available after the hearing and subsequent Commission ruling to all members of our conaunity, Remember, this activity has important long-range goals, which will be isportant to you individually. If it 1s underfunded,  Wat loves gritty, gravelly soil, doesn’t ing cold winters, survives drought, blooms happily in unmer and’ is an extremely rewarding plant  for Sandia Heights?? It is the penstemon, native oniy to North America and extremely well adapted Co tes rigors. Most of the 200 varicties come from the central plains states but they are found all over the west. They go by various names —~ beardtongue, desert snapdragon, balloon flower ~~ and come in wonderful blues, lavendars, reds, Pinks and sometimes whit  The first plant we had in our garden was a strictus pensteson, the marvelous royal blue “Bandera” that was hybridized in Los Lunas’ from plants found at about 7000" elevation in Priest Canyon in the Manzanos. Ours was on the edge of the sprinkler area and with the little extra water Dloomed heavily in early summer on two foot high spikes and contin= Ged to bloom until ‘frost. "Since most of our garden was pure sand and Sunflowers that summer, it was a hit.  The desert penstemons are my favorites because once established they require little extra’ water and are generous in their bloom. The New Mexican desert varieties include the Palmer penstemon, o.pseudospecta- bilis, sand penstemon, g, cardinalis. Palmer penstemon is big; we had a pale pink one last year that was about 5° tall in a clump we could not Peach around, looking somewhat Like a mammouth snapdragon. This plant is on its third year and promises to bloom again. After the first few months of its arrival, from the nursery, it had no extra water. It got Fave reviews from everyone who sam it. Some people have trouble with Wilt with these plants} we might have been successful with them because We watered thea so little or because the garden is new and the wilt nas not yet been introduced.  Ex pseudospectabilis has been living in our garden for three years a handsome S” evergreen with dark red stems and. brilliant pink flowers: that the hunmingbirds love. It’s particularly nice in the winter, too, a! At ueems to hold up well in the cold. It "is planted in. pure Sandia Granite sand and gets only natural water, unless we feel extraordinarily Sympathetic in tines of extreme drought. (We have a number more coming from seed.  Penstenons take tno years to flower from seed and some Varieties are true biennials, Most of curs appear to live longer.)  ‘Sand penstemon (g, ambiguus) grows all over New Mexico deserts Sometimes a bit touchy to get started, it is very long-lived and its lacy soft pink blooms on 2 stems mae it. a lovely sight. E, cardinalis hi grey leaves on glorious 2 to 3’ spikes and needs only minimum water after it gets started.  New Mexico has over 40 varieties that live from the high mountains to the low hot deserts. Watch for one-sided penstenon and a. virgatus in the Sandia foothills, among 12 varieties listed for the Sandias. The high mountains above Tierra Amarilla are filled with p. strictus and the dusky Ba whippleanug in summer. The road to Chaco Canyon has acres of Bs. bucklevil in spring. Enjoy them in the country but buy them at your nurseries or start them from seeds for the garden. Host of the native: resent travel!  Jean Heflin:  Last year your SHIA Board was visited By representatives of the Fublic Works Department and their legal representative. It was establish- ec at. that time that at least geven feet of the road shoulder was Berna 1illo County "right of way". The County advised us that they would clear all Vegetation and obstructions from their "right af way". “Your SHHAy Sfter several meetings, was successful in negotiating an agreement that Would “sion Individual” hoseomers to clear 3 oF the shoulders. The County would then pick up the material on given dates from the shoulder of the road.  a ft a a - sions of Sandia Heiahte, Clearing shovld “include all rocks, branch evechangs end —chasisa_shich_can_be_soved. Do not set rocks out for Camoval, Tt has been specifically requested that you oot include cleer= ings from your interior lot other than those items on the shoulders or right of way". All materials should be placed on. the shoulders of the road no later than 17 July 1968. Pickups will comsence the folloning days.” This program 1s voluntary. However, in the event that you co not fact, the County will, at their discretion, cut back all materials up to Seven fect with heavy equipment.  There have already been several accidents due to obstructions on the “right of way", Most specifically involve visibility problems. fron vegetation and placement of landscaping rocks. Rocks cannot be placed on the "right of way" for landscaping purposes.  ‘The criteria for clearing is the same as last year. Visibility in both directions of the road should not be impaired. All material, Vegetation, rocks, etc. If soveable, to a distance of a least three fect from the edge of the road should be resoved.  Me appreciate your consideration and cooperation in support of this program. tt will greatly iaprove road visibility and will reduce 11abi1— ity considerations for the County and possibly for you as a property  ‘they could exercise their options up to at least  Tf you have any questions concerning this program, contact your SHHA Board representative  Thanks again!  SANDIA HEIGHTS RV TRAVEL GROUP  Our first campout will be to Navajo Lake the last week in July. If you wish to Join this travel group, call Audie Warford at 293-4367.  HOLIDAY Bazan  The deadline for signing up for participation in the Bazaar is 15 August. If we do not have the required munber of participants, the Bazaar will be cancelled. For further information call Sara Warford’ at 295-4367.  ‘ TERT os  Letters to THE GRIT must be original, should be brief (-er than the  follawing letter) and concern current topics in the new  Letters must  include full name and signature of the author, address and telephone number (though these can be omitted from the printed copy, if requested). Editors reserve the right to edit or condense any letter. Address!  Letters - THE GRIT, P.O. Box 20021, Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021.  An Open Letter to Sandia Heighte Petowmere:  We moved to Sandia Heights two years ago. We have tno large dogs and, before wo brought them to our. hone, we asked for porsigsion to build a dog pen. We wore visited by a Heights representative who suggested a location and informed Us of covenants ding Building materials, We accepted these suggestions ‘a covenant restrictions. and built a cedar dog pen at considerably more cost than the normal chain Link, Only then, when our animale could be properly con- tained, did we orang them tome  Ever since we moved up here we have been subjected to cur neighbors” dogs running loose, We havea 4-1/2" adobe wall around our yard and they Literally sump our yard, take care of their needs, and jump out again! In addition, when ‘animals ‘are in the vicinity, our dogs bark...loud and long! We have pur- chased expentive “bark collars’ to try to take care of the problem. We nave be jected to “manent about our i but these have refused to ancwer they might Funsing Loose that might hing our dog cauring them to bark. We've received ‘midnight calls’ complaining about our dogs barking when they  were im with the caller calling ur liars when we informed him of that fact, We've algo receives calle trom much nore polite peopie...people who assure me they heard our dogs barking and there were no dogs around, In  one instance, a lady was assuring me there were no dogs around and our dogs wore barking:..-at that same instant, both of my dogs were inside, but 1 could Zee two doge out ay bedroom window right at our dog pen. Obviously, this lady Gould not soe our pen #rom all sides! Besides being pete, our dogs are guard doge, and basically “spend virtually all of their time inside, fulfilling :bis purpose, unlest we are out Cor the evening or no one 18 home that day to keep then ingige, which is) extremely rare. Yes, our doge do bark on occasion, but OMLY on occasion, and we almost ALWAYS bring them in as soon as they start Ty bothers us ag much as 1t does anyone else who might hear. Gut our dogs are NOT the ones who bark incessantly, day and night!  In addition, although one or the other of our doge escapes” periodically (per- hape once in O-2 weeks), we immediately go lock tor them ang Oring them home They are MOT aliowed to Foam at will, We have tried to be good neighbors by not complaining, but we are now out of patience! Virtually every house (except one! surrounding us has at least one dog that gets turned out morning and evens ing. every weekday, and almost all day on weekends, Sane dogs, same owners. On ‘one occasion, the ower of the dog directly behind us stood and watched our dog Jumping to the ‘op of our sliding glass doore and barking crazily, as Ris,  ++:Anémal Control Letter, continued on page ANIMAL CONTROL LETTER, continued  i  dog ran loose near our yard. He stood and wateted!) The to foul the deauti{ui lawn of another Rouse behind ue, and I bas weer driving then off with rocks! Enough ie enougsi! Mo where do the yy that if you don't want I th your yaré, build an 6° fence yy there will be ne jo0se dogs  Wat are the covenants for? Wat good go they do? Way ar Security Patrol cannot  't they enforced? Tome dogs, because they are out ayes't gtrape these omer turn, truly loves his or Ber pet would do thie, They could ‘They could be picked up. We all know a plague infected rodent been found an South Sandia Herghts, These omere may not care if their ‘be fact that thelr animale, through bring infected 1 uch ang caret  pets get plague, but we bitterly re  care of anture’s cali while out Funning Lot omer doesn't have to pick it up. Me are out very, ‘ingle day, rain or shine, with a pooper scsoper in our yard. We have over EVIE seen ‘snotner rerident’ sumiiariy exployed’ Sone of us have to leave for work by 6:00 am, and are forced to put our garbage ou: early. Although we are abiding by the covenants, thee soowe doe almaye get into at and scatter  May Grit (wich we receive: sbout animal control, “and. both  nothing t= It these petowers Allowed to #0 flagrantiy and routinely ignore thie aspect of the covenants, ten bow can anyone eige be expected to pay a  attention te any other aspect of thes?  We are requesting chat petomers who presentiy allow their animale to run cease this practice now. ‘Those of” ug uho contain our animale. of who dor ven have animals, are really f04 up! Me are prepared to tare containing 1 Animals and calling County Animal Control every vine we see your dof locke! Wee don't want to have to resort to this extreme, Dut You are fow put on notice  agents for REAL Animal Control  AMWAY avo Yurtka Paovvers ano Seavices tr Parca tae  1201 Mange ONE. _Aagerqve AW 7122  (505) 275-2034!  SAFETY | ——  CONSTRUCTION co. JR, WHITE  ing-20 years experien: fc 275-1805  Total Window Treatments | HEE | And nsallation  Ee kant inside source 5 eat  344-0377 Fern  Nancy S Johns  ‘CONSTRUCTION.INC.  68-38.02760"  Personalized Kitchens, Baths & Additions Design Services  209 Eubank Bivd. NE Suite At  a7s.s8e1  JOHN N. GABALOON Pagel=  Savoia Heicats _ Tran Gwe 1986  Tra Cope cometere § D ORANGE TRAILS Q Se Bg YELLow DNDER LT GREEN  7 MAGENTA  CONSTRUCTION  Page_/l  ELENA GALEGOS,  “TRAMWAY tvD 8 2  + ALL TRAILS BEGIN AT THE PARK  +  Mm Sse  Page 42  FRANCINE P. COGEN Bese Sect esencr (305) 2088900  SANDIA NGTS.  RESIDENT  HERTZMARK PARNEG Re"  TES “ospassenes  Sarg Consent <GEdward D.  MEUBEAS NEW YORK  Jones & Co. Jones & Co  Invesemert Planning By  18200 Monigomery Bivd. NE “Auqueraue, NM. 8711, Bus" (805) 292-8444  £ Seams Cochanted oH  nie  Tranaplan Trees  Fire Wood Service  Resident  D & W WINDOW COVERINGS Decor for Beautiful Homes. Dolores Farquer 296-6742  AN ERNST Ute soze0  a  ACCREDITED PLUMBING ‘AND CONSTRUCTION CO  Above  care of all Peta, Plants etc.  DATA ine]  Mic.  Page !3 veeee Soop pos his owner on a leash ng. or Jogging, thus  Bvoiding a fright, an injury  eens  = 6. S000 NEIGHBOR  sescuts down his thus avoiding a fir  to other trees, property and/or homes.  Special precautions, uring “the summer sonths when OUR kids are “out Gnd about.”  weaee  TH_SANDIA HEIGHTS DIRECTORY  Sould be ready for distribution early in July. It will be Gistributed from the Ol Fire Station (at the base of the Tras) on several  July. Contact’ an ember to. find out weekends!  Professional Resumés  for that Sharper Image  Anybody can type a resume. "we do i right  247-4011  ‘Shi ry No Other Design Element Can Compare_|   sumesote a pete camBrn  e pac etal Se | iene Suey ood oe vob eae lanes Ce  son part bot sar. ra saa it ON 1 sae cs Ormco ckr och yr ers pee ‘bul adetleg wo shuts hae sear oe  K2 Construction  Remodeling Spectalist  Free consultation and estimates ions. Attention  Pagel  southwest decor Good Ole Summertime  LEONARD DeLUE  €D BATES  Tom JAMES.  SARA WARFORD  ANDY ANDERSON  MIKE cox  BOB FITZGIBGON  LARRY GREHER  WILLIAM GUPTON  ROGER HOPPE  JANE STABLER  ROD STEMART  DAVID SULLIVAN  ALAN TARADASH  €D VAILLANCOURT  2  27;  30 SANDIA HEIGHTS DRIVE 294-8451  1721 QUAIL RUN COURT 299-2155  1019 TRAMWAY LANE 296-2582  1191 LAUREL LOOP 294-4567  18 JUNIPER HILL LOOP 294-6874  316 BLACK BEAR LOOF 295-7417  665 ROADRUNNER LANE 292-1045,  1479 MORNING GLORY ROAD 298-1630  $57 WHITE OAKS DRIVE 291-0720  1526 EAGLE RIDGE DRIVE 299-8412  668 BLACKHAMK DRIVE 298-8525  1133 MARIGOLD DRIVE 294-0177  221 SPRING CREEK LANE 275-3353  26 CEDAR HILL PLACE 299-2253  1216 ROCKROSE ROAD 29997279  PRESIDENT  VICE-PRESIDENT  SECRETARY  ‘TREASURER  PARKS AND RECREATION  ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL.  LEGAL ADVISOR  COVENANT CONTROL,  DIRECT SERVICES 70 MEMBERS  stRaTEGIC PLANING  LEGAL ADVISOR  STRATEGIC PLANNING  1990  1990  1991  1989  1991  1999  1989  1989  1991  1969  1990  1990  NEWSLETTER NEWS:  The SHHA Board is actively seeking anew editor for THE GRIT. If  you have a word processor in your home, have 2-3 days every other month to spare in typing, layout, going to the printer, and doing the mailing, please contact an SHHA Board member. We do have’ a list. of persons who are willing to help ~ so you don’t have to be totally alone!  In the meantiae, our guest editor for the Septeaber issue is Harry Criel. Ihe deadline tor the Sent. issue is Wednesday, August iotn.  Please aubmit articles and ads to Harry Criel, 326'Paintorush Drive NE, 296-7256.  ADVERTISING POLICY  Non-commercial ads (baby sitting, house sitters, etc.) EREE to residents of Sandia Heights. These ads will run continously, until cancelled by the advertiser or unless obviously "dated".  Commercial ads - minimum of $25 per 1/4 page ($50 per half page, etc.) Business card size - $25 per 4 (four) issues. House cleaners - #5 per issue  ALL ADS MUST BE CANERA-READY AND CORRECTLY SIZED  PAYMENT MUST ACCOMPANY ALL COMMERCIAL ADS  WELCOME IO NEW BOARD MEMBER -C, ANDY ANDERSON  C. Andy “Anderson is Chief Financial Officer for Southwest Business Ventures, Inc. and Acting Executive Vice President for MedWest, Inc. Both organizations are associated with Presbyterian Hospitals of NM.  andy and nis wife, dudy, and their daughters, moved to Sandia Heights fron Madrid, Spain two years ago. Their six years in Spain culminated Andy's career with General Electric Co. which included finan~ €1al assignments in Cincinnati, Ohio; Albuquerque; Bogata, Columbia; and Madrid.  Returning to Albuquerque and living in Sandia Heights represents the fulfillment of a dream for the Andersons. Judy and Andy have been married 25 years almost half of which has been living overseas (the Orient, South America and Europe) and are planning to "settle down” in Sandia’ Heights and watch Albuquerque grow from their vantage point on Juniper Hill Loop.  Andy 18 a graduate of the Ohio State University (B.A.) and Xavier University (M.B.A.) and is a member of the Financial Executives Institute. Judy is a travel agent with Baroness Thunderbird Travel where she utilizes Well her on-site experience and personal knowledge of over sixty coun= tri All the @ndersons speal. Spanish fluently.  Their older daughter, Tammy, was recently married after graduating with honors from UNH. The Anderson's younger daughter, Heidi, graduated from La Cueva High School with honers and as Female Athlete of the Year, — ang will begin at UNM in’ the fall. wher beth a Nursing and a Track scholarship.  Fage (7  WUNTY VOLUNTEER, DEPARTMENT. DISTRICT S  To All Residents & Property Ouners of Sandia Heights % North Aba. Acres:  To-date District 5 has experienced a very busy year. Fire and rescue calls increase in frequency with each passing month and the rapid Growth of both conmunities puts an added strain on our resources. In Grder to cope more efficiently with these emergencies we have opened our former Fire Station to house Engine 52. This permits a more immediate response to calls in North Sandia Heights. Additionally a Heavy Duty Rescue Vehicle has been added at the Main Station on Paseo del Norte, and Scheduled to arrive in August is a specially constructed diese) powered bumper for quick response. Having a. short wheel-base with a small furning circle, it will be ideally suited to. the terrain in our ares With these improvements District’ 5 is able to cover incidents most  However It would be of tremendous help if we could ebtain the services of a few sore volunteers from within the impediate area, male and/or female, to augment cur efforts. Interested? To find out more about this aspect of community service call 293-4275 on weekdays between the hours of 8:00 asm, and 5100 p.m.  There are other ways in which you can help. Safety around the hone im of paramount importance. Weed burning in this windy time of the year ig always a problem and the danger of a serious conflagration ever imminent. Boxing or bagging your garden trash is the best answer. If you live in Sandia Heights look’at the fire hydrant on or close to your Porperty. Is it easily accessible? Clear of obstructions and properly {nstalled? If not, you are urged to call the Sandia Peak Utility Company and request the ‘situation be rectified at an early date. A County Ordinance decrees such accessibility.  ‘Once again, relative to all esergency calls, please ensure your hone is correctly numbered with 4” figures on gach side of your mailbox.  Last, but by no means least, now that the ividious date of April 19 is behind you, may we ask and hope’ you may be persuaded to send a contri~ bution to help District 5 continue to maintain the high level of service you have come to expect on a year-round basis. Many of you have supported Us faithfully in past years. For this we thank you. As you must all realize, a Fire District cannot be maintained on kind words alone and we Will be mast appreciative of a sore tangible token of your support.  Remenber” to bucklle-up on your way to the Post Office with your reply to us. Seat belts are synononous with safety!  Sincerely, Clark Speakman  chief, District 5  GANDIA HEIGHTS SOCIAL BRIDGE  Ladies Daytime Bridget Couples Evening Bridge: ‘st Monday 12:30 3 tables Ist and 2nd Saturday 2nd Friday 12130 2 tables 2nd and 4th Tuesday Sro Tuesday 12:50 2 tables Sed Friday  Bridge Marathon - Must sign up by 31 July if you wish to play bridge with this group. We must have at least 12 couples.  Tf you wish to play bridge with any or all of the above groups cell Sara Warford at 293-8387.  NEED A BABY SITTER?_ Call Jennifer or Emily Janes. baby sitter because you're reaching two sitters at once! Both girls are 13." We've both taken the Red Cross baby sitting course and many other: Call us at 276-2562.  keene RELIABLE, RESPONSIBLE BABY SITTER - experienced with babies. Call Mary Richardson at 298-3770. seeee BABY SITTER ~ Lisa Lopez, 15 years old. References. 299-3058. eens BABY SITTING ~ Plants watered, pet care. Melissa Bova, age 14, 292-5246. wrens BABY SITTER ~ Malia List, 15 years old. Experienced. 294-3691. wenae BABY SITTER - Page Moore, 15 years old. Experienced. 275-0808. renee EXPERIENCED BABY SITTERS - Plant waterers, etc. Tamara Eyer, age 14 and Jamie Eyer, age 12, Call 278-4288. erent BABY SITTING - If you're on a trip, 1 will take care of your pets, plants, mail and/or newspaper. Lindsay Worth, 11 years old. 298-6155.  wheat DO YOU NEED SOMEONE to take care of your mail, plants, and/or pets while you are gone ona trip? Well, don’t worry - I Can. Call Jamie (age 11) at 299-8803. I am also available as a “Mother's Helper  teeee BABY SITTER - Jennifer Brannon, 16 years old. 294-2007. House and pet sitting. Can provide own transportation. Very experienced.  wears  AA BABY SITTER ~ house sitter, pet sitter. Please call Michelle Munson at 299-1400. Experienced, references.  Peas DO YOU NEED YOUR HOUSE taken care of when you go on vacation? 1 water Plants, take care of animals, and de odd Jobs. Call Karen Truesdell at 293-5451. Age 11.  weeee  NEED HELP in taking care of children, mail, plants, pets, or yardwork while you're on a trip oF ho Experienced and with references! Call Scott (age 13) at 298-3043, veeee NEED A DOG WALKED? Plants watered? Child watched? Kerri (age 14), Tyson (age 16) and Katie (age 11) Gilder. 292-B002. beers HOUSE CARE SERVICE - including house plant watering, outside watering, mail and newspaper, feeding cats, dogs and fish. Doesn't do snakes. The Prices vary depending on services. Experienced. Todd Randall at 296-2495. terre TIRED OF DRIVING ALL AROUND TOWN? Licensed "Errand Person” will run your errands. 7 days a week. Call Joel at 296-8915. Rates: Mileage Plus. Peeee HANDY BOY SPECIAL! No Job too small, from yard work to baby sitting and anything in between. Daryl Moon 294-3870. teers EXPERIENCED HOUSE AND ANIMAL SITTER ~ Lisa Cole (age 27). Call at 293-6751, Sandia Heights Resident. References available pheee  PLEASE SAVE ALUMINUM CANS for Keith and John Gallow, Call us and we will  come by and pick them up. Our phone number 1s 296-4959. Thank you. fertt  NEW BOY SCOUT TROOP - Any Fathers and Sons (ages 11 to 18) interested in forming a new Boy Scout Troop in the Sandia Heights area are asked to make their interest known by calling Mr. Paul Voorhees at 292-6984.  Scouting is @ fun and challenging program, and if there is enough interest wo mill get started right away.  eeeee VACATION ACCOMODATION AVAILABLE at Holiday Inn in Puerto Vallart, October ist - 8th and 1 other week that you select. Very reasonable rent. For information phone 293-9178.  veeee  SANDIA HEIGHTS FAMILY seeking mature, experienced, dependable person for after-school child care. Must have excellent references and be a resident of Sandia Heights. 294-2886 (7-9 Pr)  seas LAMN MOWER (OLD) NEEDED! If you have a reel-type lawn mower or rototiller with a gas engine that works, please let me have it or buy it from you. Tt ts well needed. So please contact mo (ask for Colby) at 292-6884. PLAYGROUP FOR 1 MORNING a week. Age range 15 to 20 onths. Call Eva or Kathy at 298-0169.  eeane DO YOU HATE TO IRON, or Just don’t have the time? Well, I can help! Call Valerie at 299-9367.  eens SINGLES GOURMET DINNER CLUB ~ Anyone interested in forming this kind of group, please call me ~ Anne McKinney ~ phone 275-8541.  venue  THE MOTHER'S DAY OUT PROGRAM at the Church of the Good Shepherd will run  all suamer, Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9 AM to SPH. Children & months Ehrough 5 years old are welcome, Call 299-8482 or 299-1419. eyeet  WELCOME TO NEW BOARD MEMBER ~ BILL GUPTON BLL1 4s vice premident of CBS Property Services, Inc. Bill, his Wife, Suzan, and two children, Billy (age 6) "and Shane (age 12)'have Tived on White Oaks for 3 years. They moved to Albuquerque from Fort worth in 1973." BIT wee eresident of “Albusuergue Apartaant Means tor 2 ra, and has served on that board for S years. He is president of the Hew Mexico Chapter of Institute of Real Estate Management. He has been in the field of property management for 12 years. Bill has a BBA in  Accounting. His hobbies are tennis, hiking and climbing.  LNEORTANT_INEORMATION FROM ‘THE ALQUQUERGUE ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT  PLAGUE Living in or going te the Sandia foothills? REMEMBER to einimize your plague risk: fconfine pets and dust thea weekly with flea powder, vod sick or dead animals, fclean-up wood/rock piles and trash around your hose.  Coroxapo Acapemy Chl Decopeen Cone  An enriching environment with certified professional faculty. FULLY ACCREDITED  GRADE SCHOOL 18mo,~S yrs. old K ~ Sth grade  #2 San 1,  SUMMER DAY CAMP OPENINGS “still available for 2-week  Saturday, July 30, 3100 - 5:00 PR AT THE HOME (AND GARDEN) OF VIRGINIA AND ED FLULTZ 1044 Tramway Terrace Loop ~ 296-3378  let the host know you're coming so they can plan accordingly.  ig  : 8  x 7 AF ae  1 ewes yt 8? ATES, eovano  adag QUAIL RUN CT NE  ‘ 2 3ic$ ALBUQUERGUE, NM a?iz2 -  1 2  % i  @  