C  Dy, ~— > rag oe  S  Sontrtechatlon btn  September 10a Numbers  President's Message  D zine the pas si month has “beet  vention. pre ceeding with your Water Com pany. Many members of tke Community have equated th Detivity With rate considerations only  ‘As the legal discovery pro: ceeded, Bowever, far more impor tant issues surfaced which we believe require  Company, and Ski Company) as well as the Public Service Com: n. The issues involved have fot been addressed by this rate fase or the Commision. The Utility Company seems reluct to discuss these remaining issbes after being awarded a sizeable increase in water The Commission will eater i cussion only afterall app have been allowed to expire. We filed a motion for reheating the Commission. If action is en by vither the Utility say or the Commission. we have voted to appeal the rate case to the Courts predicated om ob- taining ‘ceatinuing community ‘and Financial support. ‘Our expert witness has cited the FramOil Filter commercial, "You ‘ean pay now, or pay later” With this Usility Company, you willbe doing dorh if these maiters are wot resolved,  Your SHHA Board ‘elected to protect sour with all entities to the best of our  Continued on page 2  Water Rate Intervention Report Water Rates Are Not the Only Issue  As previously reported, the WHO OWNS WHAT? New ‘Mexico ‘Public Service ""Oaly a Traction of the water Commission adopted the Commis- system that serves our commu sion Staff Stipulation with the is owned by. the Sandia Uillity Company, granting a rate Utility Company, the increase, which is now ia effect, is subject to regulation by the There were, - New Mexico Public Service pects of Commission  {ain aspects of the rate case. TANKS, BUT NO TANKS: If we are unable to resolve our The other and more important differences with the LUlity portion of the system (ie, “the Company and the Commission rr wtlity” = the wwe have authorized an appeal to booster “station, the Courts predicated on your  concurrence and further financial Support. Our expert witness has Continued on page 0 conce! the Utility  Company coatinues to operate  In this issue...  ment, you may experience some Rate ened St the Risheut water rater ia the | Bridge Club... <u State of New Mexico, coupled | Calendar of Events 13 ‘with possible deteriorating ser Letters  ees hecause of on-going engi feccring and operational deci ios Commission support 10 corzect these conditions at some | Non-Commercial AdScmmomd later date may not be possible as | President's Message. 1 this teasing activity ts held gut- | SHHA Board of Directors  For example, let ws conmider some of the most important prob- | Accomplishments. Jem areas  The Neighborhood Dog.  him leashed “cause they didn't think the leash law applied to them) A rabbi io the dog took off, followed by hi mistress - an adorable blond 5: year old, A careful driver luckily BIL his brakes just in time-—can you not see the tragedy that could have happened and all because  the simplest of laws was aot obeyed? Must it happen???  FRANCINE 9. COGEN Rede Sse Reason (305) 2988880  SANDIA HGTS. RESIDENT  HERTZMARK BARNEGS Ke"  Be | SCHOOL'S IN SESSION  | Please ditve caretutiy.  Obey our posted speed lita end ‘stop sigat wand waten for atopped school busses and chikdren | watidng slong j the roses, i  President's Message  Continued from page T  ability, We obsi do we intend to, the support of the comma ‘This has been an expensive inte vention involving far mors th the present day water rates, vig  ously opposed by the Joint Venture (ies the Tram Company. Ski Company, and Alvarado Realty) and the Utility Company for reasons that will Become apparent  Teel confident chat if you were knowledgeable of these (acts you would net Restate to provide additioaal Gnaucial support t0 help us co contiaue our reform  program and necessary appeal ctiort  Please contact your SHHA Board representative if you de-  site more information of wish (0 feviow any of the discovery materials, oF you eun contact directly. in this isue of The Gri We have included a discussion of some of the more important mat- tere outside of the Rete see.  Ta this regard, you will be eo acted in the near future By tele phone to got an expression of you Suppor and io ash Tor Financisl It you are abie to respond prior appreciated. A comm  ther expinis the issues ené 19 We urge you to participate in Js important community mat-  er Cost end quality of water services and the avaitability of tame may be scrioualy affected in ature rears iT these issues are nat properiy addressed at this time  Many voluaicer workers, in cluding your neighbors. have | eostribaice hunereds of hours of  ward tais intervention. Th  een considerable expert oering analysis provided free of charge, Over three hundred families have contributed funds to what they considered an im- portant community matter, Frequently tervention, opposing par  ported by Commi  redings in an effort to est inter. Cention resolve and. financlal rosoureet. Has this happened in this cass? Please review the ree od  ‘want to thank the many fami- fies” and individual volunteers that have been sbppartive of this community effort. However, we have not finished  Enclosed is @ self-addressed cavelope., We would epprestate your conside  Five dollar contribution at this Hime Of course, larger contcibur toms will also be appreciate  you are unable to contribute, Plome send vs a letter of support Gra smaller amocnt. We seed ‘Saximum participation from the Commueity to carry forward this Slfort to a conclusion  Thea  sien fom the Uitty. Compony rd ofinte case. They want  fo further aval  ‘The deadline fo or articles for the November ise  DEThe Griv’ is Ocloder Judy Harris, $18 Big Horn Ridge  Rosé Ne, Albuquerque 87122,  bas | 299-8803 Page 3  LLerteestoTWE GAT shoul orginal tian concerncurrenttopcs inte ews. Letters mos! iecide ful ame and signature cl the athor ares ‘Za etopns rnb (th tas a tte athe rd ogy ‘Frequnsied) Eatorsreseriatierghtoactsrcmnaense syatir Sagres Ibttra to. Latins “THEERF PO Boe 3003 Aiboqworan Wal B7154-097  Lisa pleasure to advise you as JF would like to express my ap- Editor of “The Grit", as well IT. preciation vo Leonard DeLve as other home owners, that the nd the Sandia Heights Mome- newly elected members of the owners Association for the hard Architectural Committee are work they put inom the water rate functioning effectively in exet- intervention effort. The acti cising their authority for the and updates I received from the Denefit of all residents SHIA appeared tobe factual, ob When it was found that a jective, and consistemt with ac- boring lot id foot setback {rom the property line, Mr. Bob the other hand, issued several Fitzgibbon visited the site to notices that bordered on ame ‘observe, first hand, to determine calling, emotionalism, and seare if the building was being coa- tactics. structed i ‘Whatever the outcome of the plans and specifications which water rate interveation effor, ‘were formally approved by the the fact that SHHA didnot Architectural Coms Mr. merely “rubber stamp” the Tram Company's request for a rate they took increase represents a real break immediately. through. Perhaps this is the residents ‘of real representation Sandia Heights owe 4 vote of fests the residents of ‘hanks to these dedicated persons Sandia Heights by the SHH:  who serve as the watchdog for HARRY CRIEL.  compliance by all builders, who 326 Paintheush Dr.  are required to build in accor  ddance with the plans and specifi.  cations approved by the Commit: phe Last issue of “The Gri tee, We are sure that all notified us that the County  for such a com- was going (ocleat thelr "ight of jon effectively. way” slong the shoulders of our We join others in offering our roads  incere. gratitude to them for How isthe County going to feed Serving ie this capacity their way here! They certainly ALLEN L. Wicks cant ack their saowpiow drivers ISIS Eagle Ridge Road their toad repair crews They  could ask the Sheriff's Depart  ‘ment, but then it would (ake a ‘or so to get here,  For years, the County has cried  ‘and road maintenance,  id security have  the Tram Com:  through the SHHA. the County clears thei of way,” cam we assume that they will begin providing af! the serv fees that we, as taxpayers, ate entitled to?  TWO-WAY STREET  Heights  Welcome to New Board Member, Jane Stabler Jane Stabler and her husbas  Bill, have lived im Sandia Heights 12 yeats, Jane recently re ni  Bill retited as Regional Ex fot the U. §, Fish and Wildlife Service. “They are both very involved inc agreed to spead some of their newly acquired spare time work- {ng for their neighborhood. Jane, sia newly elected SHHA board ‘member, will chair “direct serv {ces to members" Bill, am associ= fate member of the board, is ser fon the newly formed Archi ectural has been actively iay They love to play bridge and sso 2 aloe of recreation in thei air search and fescue with the Coast Guard Auxiliay.  New Look for “Grit”  This isue of THE GRIT has a  ew look.” Let us know how you  ike it. Please send. our com- is, suggestions, of criti  HE GRIT, PO. Box 20021,  Albuquerque, NM 47184-0021  Pane 4  Non-Commercial Advertising  ‘Non-commercial ads (baby siting Bouse sitting ete) are FREE 1 residents of Sandia Heights. These ads wilrun ‘Sontinicesy util canceled bth aavertione oles bv ics dated  [AAA BABY SITTER ~ pow sine gar | NOUN CARH SERVIC} noluag hone | MEW ROY SCOUT TROOP Any Famer ie a en | rs wang ete wana as | Sag lo) norman Moo. Enperenedrtrnces evopapriecang so, ge and fom | soew dy Sot Tro ihe Sane A Re i __| ecant  anaten Toe priests dnpemd- eased to mane thee inerest Kaa sponses Faperences. Ted Rams | ty ening te  Con prvige cnn tempraion Wertenges |} ati tee enooph ieee wit ze HOUSECLEANER wim weences Avate  ene, nas gba  PLAYGROUP FOR | MORNING a ween, Ae egs 1 1028 comin Cal Eee or  Reese 3h  BBADY SIFTER - Sak Lis 1S years oa ‘Etpenenced. 305-30  Ne SIBLE maby wer = AD SITTING - ao pant and per ae Sreneaceo nich tubes Cal My Trjearald ba Coors hear Choa Cae  fours. enpenence Vieky Aware. 281 reese  we Qe’ Bonpiken Ib, Wersborbaalente | RESFON! Eaming penn iB GS Cran bbs sting sour and mony | SO Sorte’ Icnouraid eB  BABY SITING thon  SINGLES GOURMET BANER clus ose tested (ron Srp ae  SHEDA DOG WALKED? Pla hana Kee age (2) hae 2  NEEDIELPINTARING CAR cfentdan, | TIRED OF ORFING = arand cova! ST REG ABGWT | Feeencee Cat's jage tat means, | 9S, Rates Mea pi  Foca aeons Age  Eyer ape Cao  EXPERIENCED HOLSE AND ANIMAL fie tise Cove age 17)" Cast 23-031 [Sidi Hege RendentReerences 363  HANDY BOY SPECTAL Nays wo trom ard werk obabs sug on  LEONARD DeLUE  eD BATES  ‘TOM JAMES  SARA WARFORD  ANDY ANDERSON.  MIKE COX  BOB FITZGIBBON  BILL GUPTON  ROGER HOPPE  JANE STABLER  ROD STEWART  DAVID SULLIVAN,  JACK WIRTZ,  ‘TO BE ANNOUNCED ‘TO BE ANNOUNCED  JUDY HARRIS.  BILL STABLER  ED VAILLANCOURT  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1988 - 1989  30 SANDIA HEIGHTS DRIVE Sonaest  1721 QUAIL RUN COURT 299-2158  1019 TRAMWAY LANE 296-2582  1191 LAUREL Lor 2984367  18 JUNIPER HILL LOOP 294-6874  516 BLACK BEAR LOOP 293.7417  666 ROADRUNNER LANE 292-1045  337 WHITE OAKS DRIVE 291.0720  1526 EAGLE RIDGE DRIVE 299-6812  668 BLACKHAWK DRIVE 298.85  1183 MARIGOLD DRIVE 2008177  221 SPRING CREEK LANE 2753383  418 LIVE OAK COURT as1018  ASSOCIATE DIRECTORS  318 BIG HORN RIDGE ROAD 299-4803  os BLACKHAWK DRIVE 08-8525  16 ROCKROSE ROAD  PRESIDENT  VICE-PRESIDENT  SECRETARY  TREASURER  FINANCE  PARKS AND  RECREATION  ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL  MEMBER SHI COVENANTS. CONTROL  DIRECT SERVICES TO MEMBERS  STRATEGI PLANNING  LEGAL ADVISOR  ROADS & SAFETY CURRENT AFFAIRS  THE GRIT ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL  STRATEGIC PLANNING  1991  1989  989)  1990  1990  1990  001  1989 wot Water Rate Intervention ?  Continued from pes  from the ground to the storage aks, as well as the underlying ‘water rights) are not the property Of the water company, but are ‘owned by other entities, primar- y the Joimt Venture, or entities thereof, consisting of the Tram Company. Ski Company. and Alvarado Realty. ‘The Saad Indians own the “Indian Wells The Team Company leases the Indian Wells and then “subleases tothe water company, This eatire system, and its relationship with the water company, has similar characteristicn to GENCO. DISCO tecesily “proposed by PNM, ie. only the actichies the water compan: appesr to ave been regulated. The trans mission system he leased ‘equipment controlled by the Joint Venture, appears to lack regula How mach the Utility Company pays for purchaned water (Indian Wells) and for usage of the leased cauipment (which the Utility  leases Company. and essentially Joint Venture or. compoacats thereof, ie, the Tram Company Ski Company, and Alvarado Re alty, Since mont of these entities involve essentially the same ae Hive managers/olficers, we do a0t believe that these leases were  properly definitive mor have they been armclength business trans  ‘Although the Utility Company hhas represented that it his aever made 4 profit with the exception ff ome year, 1982, itcertaialy can mot say thot all'eatities of this ‘operation (ie. the Joint Venture have mot benetited through prot its rate of returns, increased assets, ee. I should aisa be noted that the Utility Company shows ‘$112,000 in retained earnings  Thoir 1988 Tacome Tax returay hardly consistent with their ay sertion of loses.  With regard to the lease actis ity, an copecially troublesom Provision contained in these Teaces allows the Joiat Venture and affiliates, upon six months's notice to the water company, 10 tithdraw from the leases. This would inclede all trans cauipment, well, water tights, Se Our commonity could be required to find. alternative sources of water and equipment Topump the same. Or inthevvent of a sale or reorganization, & reevaluation of this equipment ti include the water rights could be  ‘Do we need an attorney to help  We think so and we will need additional funding tohelp pursue this reform effort  ALL'S NOT WELL WITH THE WELLS. In 1986, the test year for this  rate case, the Joint Venture wp  Thet sounds  Gated the Love Woll sie at 9 coxt tenor) im order to increase the e-per-minute thut could be pumped: Ifthe water company is the storage tamks  during “off-peak” hours, or at Aight, pumping electrical costs are greatly reduced. Hf they have {cipemp during "on-peak hours for dering the day, electrical costs cam triple. Apparently, this ex pemive update did not produce the desiced results for 1986 and 1987, because the Joint Veature has recently been drilling a new swell at the Love Well site and {ding a storage tank, the costs of which will surely be reflected fa the next rate case which cam be anticipated at any time. AL though the Diility Company, in ‘aezouncement of the stipala dicated to the commanity that it had. ageeed. with the Commission not to seek another increase for several years, they.  hae quietly temaved this pactot  is Th the sieaatlme, Ht has been necewary to pump the Indian  Let's shake on i Pgs 7  ‘Wal tackep which iy more expensive to operate) daring "0  peak” hours. ia the summer hs. Operating costs at both Wells have accelerated. sig antly. However, the Uiility Company apparestly did not  ‘otity the Commission in 1986 01 1987 f the problems encountered with the Love Well. Nor did the Utility Company aor the Com mission notify intervenots of this significant occurrence at the time  of filing. The orig Well, Lease Agrcement, which we ble to review because it  Heights water delivery could be  significantly jeopardized, ‘These are just several examples fof areas of concern that we ate tempting to resolve with the Utility Company and the Com: ‘Since the Utility Com hava rate inc relectant  sc, they are very re any farther  i of the physical plaat or  ies of  as they  system Nave throughout this rate case  that these activities ate not part fof the water company. The Ui ity Company is essentially seek Ing to close the door on any  further reform or improve w  emmpls. to er company opera  VPS THE LEASE OF OUR WoRRIES  ‘The Utility Company willl that the Com  reviewed this ea {years 1981 - 1986.and approved it by allowing a rate of selurn ia theit final Order, However, some members of the Commission Stal! were confused aso how the water company was, orpanized Teasing activity. We invite you 40  Teview the depositions and tour tony, as well as the rate case microfilm as {0 our assertions swith regard to this le ity for the years 1981 believe that it has bea lated. If allowed to com te andi the water company able  The Utility Company and its  lates feel that the comme  y was oaly concerned with  ways keep ‘unprofie  por ‘ther reforms wil be forthcoming, These reforms i clade, but are not Timited to  1. Leasingactivity placed under ‘eteater_tesalation to include a  somplcic independent audit and eu fall tran  accoustability. The consumer ‘ants to Know what is happen throughout the water system th can significantly affect water rates and water availability 2:Pumping Policies Indian Well  Love Well - “Time of Day indion Well water is more expen: sive,” Should pumping {rom that Well be controled? Why would it be, if we ignore this issue?  Circumstances relating To  Love Well Update, ‘Why were farther new capital improve iments necessary after an expen:  Sive spdate that was performed  1985 (Le, new Well and tanh)? The consemer/rate-payer has a legitimate interest im these and Similar matters  higher charges for new hook-ups are in order. Hook-up fees have aot changed since their inception. Each new Audition accelerates the tequite:  ‘meat for major capi  fal. improvements Keeping the hook-up fees at their curve  pansion resides Of Albuquerque's area of water Service), oly serves to subsidize the builders and developers, some of whom have various arrange sents with the water company's MMiiliates.  5. Fire hydrant and water pres re considerations. Hyd ressare is low in some ase of fire, will the wal be adequate?  “6. Establishing some  ines oF limitation’ of {v. fure expansions of the water company's service area. Will the Indian lands be developed? Can the present system support larne  (ditions without. sigei icant  tal improvements? Who will have to pay for such expansions the developers whe profit from  ‘Continued on page  DILLYE GAMSBY, CRI JOHN N.GABALDON Restor aoe B soussouanuo saropsan mah SERVING us (305) 881.770 Ree 505) 2982189  RIGHTS  (CONSTRUCTION, INC.  G8-98027601  Personalized Kitchens, Baths & Additions ‘Design Services  209 Eubank Bivd, NE Suite Ad 275.8007  AMWAY awo Yurrka Paoovers ann Services ee tn  1201 Margo OF. ‘Neuqurge, MM 87122  (Gos) 275-2034"  |. SANDIA HEIGHTS RESIDENT  re  JR. WHITE  LIC. GENERAL CONTRACT Sandia Heights Reside: i oosrom our m aust e8-2026)  neral Hone Repair  Skylights, Door, Window inssall  D & W WINDOW CO’ r for Beautiful Hi Dolores Farquer 296-6742  Water Rate Intervention  Continued from poge 7  selling lots and Romes in those areas or the current rate-payers Who stand to gai nothing other than higher water rates?  7. Open book policy - Joint Vea: ture and Us system be secret  & Dedication of wate  . the water company has £0 rights. These rights are hheld by the Joint Venture. Unless this problem is remedied, the water company fore, weil) cas only Took forward to being awessed more and more for these rights Mivoueh ger and ipher lease being demanded by the Utlty Company affitiater 9. Greater contra to reduce lost, water (32,000,000 gallons in 1986). Even he aking water from hydrants for dust Control and grading activities i North “Albuquerque Acres, > portion of which they were not paying for. Approximately 15,000 gallons per day were being taken for many months. Has this activity been going on for years? You ate paying to pump this water theough th nerease Ts this conservation  WHAT TO bo ABOUT IT? Do you feet that these issues should be addressed by the Com ssion, Joint Venture, and Util ity Comps  Your further fi is mecded, a5  Without nding. our appeals will not be heard  Leonard Delve  WHAT HAS THE WATER RATE INTERVENTION EFFORT ACCOMPLISHED?  1. Am awareness by the Urtility Company that the com. ity has serious conceras relating to ater services, and wwe are prepared to seek improvement  Very “fem people Knowledge of these activities  portant rate base matters.  ler pressure in higher he sab division. Not so im 1986 a  5. Eathlishment of a comprehensive discovery record ‘whick folly reveals com  ed actions, or Tack of same, w  ature rate cases, You have tos  6. Correction of Love Well deficiencies, A new Well and nk were installed during the intervention. Would this have happened or would these deficiencies have gone unaddressed?  7. Commission Staft investigation resulting in im- proved financial reporting and segregation of Class 1 ransactions: ie, evoss-charging by allliates. Review of depreciation practices and reduction of taxes allowed in the rate ease  S.A significant rate reduction for small oF av ter users below the original proposal  9.A comprehensive understanding of the open problem areas that etist with a presentation of same to the Utility, Company and the Commission  10. An awareness of our need for defining the service areas andor controlling ho» it expands, 4, further expansion could require significant capital improvemeats.  Again, the iaterveation iavolves many issues over and fate matters. We boliets it has been a worthwhile Sil help bring necessary improvements  Wore pRocessinG Semices Professional Resumes, © SV eed (ec ee FRR veers | for that Sharper Imego oes 1 yews  Deliveses ace stReKEL  Anybody can type 2 resume.  ICRODATA inc,  247-4011 OUTPOST ICE ARENA \  JUDO TRAINING SESSIONS itn Pe  ‘CHILDREN CLAS  WED 7200-8:309 | Sp ageppeme neon SENIOR CLASSES 'Secetug ticerie a  THURS 700-8:30p= he PREPARATION 15 TODAY'S WO!  i  ae  EXTEND AN INE |  D. WE AT IDS  nel ence  i BENEFITS i  FAMILY TO EWOY OUR WormeRSL SORT i Hey ; eum x  conrioence, oscitine anc zevics. || masons norris TRAINING ARE ONLY AFEW OF T= 1s “eens  CHILDREN I PREPARATION FOR 5! ‘SCHOOL AND SKILL DEVELOPEMENT § ‘COMPETITIVE OLYMPIC SPORT WILL BE® ‘YOUR CONCERN FOR THEIR FUTURE  Jeu wotrascun ay as pmo att  GOI US — THE STAKF AT UDO CLL, 0  Page 11  Holiday Bazaar ‘ @ Rudin vesign Remodeling, wc  Be sure o mark your cale attend the holiday bazaar. W's  ighbors. In you will be supporting your V Fire Deparument whick will receiv Call Sara Warford at 293-4367 or Jane questions  Sandia Heights Social Bridge  Ladies Daytime Bridge Design Remodeling is ist Monday 123 Good Planning si Tray 1230 Additions ® Kitchens * Bathrooms  294-9786 2336 Britt NEABQ, NM ucene No 2108  Ist and 2nd Saturda: dad and sth Tuesday  3d Friday | NEIGHBORHOOD COFFEES  SHHA Skating Party Wednesday, 0 10.00 am, no0m  the home of Lucy Ri Hill Ro  ll  The Hospitality Commitee is planain,  ted in| Sunday, November 20th, 300 p.m. - 5:00 pam We are the home of Vern and Kathie Peterschmidt  thinking about dey evening in 549 Black Bear Road Novembcs, Call Elle Cox at 293-741 393.7023 a uring the day or call Jane  welcome and © all Billye Gamaby  see several “couples”  “Grit” Circulation  mailed to all 1387 residents of Sandia Height  A SANDIA MOUNTAIN ROSE GARDEN  What's in a rose garden besides roses? Our wild Sandia Mountain tose garden bas two flowers that Wwethink of as roses, bat many of ur most bess  to the rose shrab ‘of ows plume, may look like grey dead wigs all winter bat in summer its  F white single rose blooms fol. lowed by the lovely pink plumes that light up in  eAualight make  6 comanis of elif rose, often appears to grow out of pure rock but ¢ Ta. In July Usaw several actes of iat the aorth tim of the Grand Covered with small ant creamy Yellow roves, tis wisted in form, but there's ion whether this is "natu ral" or pruned by browsing deer think the latter since at the Denver Botanical Garden 1 sax several perfectly symmetrical Plaats. (By the way. most of the Plants inthis article arc lunch f the deer and would have to be protected from them in your garden until well established.) Servieeberty is another delight ful shrub that cen. if protected grow into a small tre. Its sm ‘Thite bunches of Blossoms a Followed by berries that birds and animals like, (People, too. They ere an ingredient of the Indians peramicon) Three varieties gros  THE VIEW FROM JACK RABBIT HILL  2 small ree from above the S00" level but it might do all right in the upper section 0 Sandia Heights with some extra (irs the sapulin of Cap. ‘lin Springs) Its lovely racemes Of tigy white flowers are. fol Towed by small dark red berries Deloved of the birds and in the Fall iG foliage Curms mixed yel- low, oranges and reds, And, eres a beautiful little haw ‘hora tree that I saw one spring making 4 beautiful show in Las Huertas Canyon ‘Another co ber adapted to cingsefoil oF faricties grow in the high See: las, with all single yellow flow fers, Thave had the ¥” pructicosa  growing in my garden for several  family mem den use is the Eight  sears. Wt didn’t like the dry side of the path (it is mative to the tigher ‘movrtains) but after T snoved it to receive more regular ‘sater it blooms from early spring rest. Narscrics havea number improved varieties of poten fila and there is even @ low rowing variety that can be used Ss ground cover ‘And, among others in our S: ia "Rose Garden, there's aine atk, rock spitaca, thimbleber es and strawberries and one species of mountain mahogany which is generally available in surserics along with cousin from o'Gistance, curlleal mouat ‘mahogany, both handsome roughe tolerant shrubs pretty distingeished fa Jean Heflin  "THE GRIT* ADVERTISING RATES  Non-commercial ads (baby sitting, sinters ete) EREE to residents of Sendia Heights. These ade will run  Commercial ads- minimum of $25 per 1/4 page (550 pee hall page, ete)  ALLADS MUST BE CAMERA. READY AND CORRECTLY SIZED  PAYMENT MUST ACCOMPANY COMMERCIAL ADS  or the November insve is Wednesday, October 12th Please submit articles and ads to ady Marris, 8 Big Horn Ridge  4 NE. Albuquerque. 87122  ‘A Reminder... E —  like announced, or any item of interest to the Sam inside source > Weak ise: Biede iat | 344.0977 Fe  Help! Help! Help! "Edward D. Jones & Co.  for THE Gi  Investment Pinning By  doing the mailing, please c Judy Harrisor aw Sandia Heights Resident  PLEASE SUPPORT YOUR SHA. Ti GOING WATER RATE INTERVENTION FFFORT. SELF-ADDRI  XPENSES FOR THE O) 1ED ENVELOPE ENCLOSED.  Poge 14  Offered for Lost Yellow Lab Puppy  Femaie, 4 moe. Gid Answers to  Goan) Children’s Pat Please Cai the Martin's  299-0909 or 345-8856  LARGE REWARD  This igs Good Tims >)  if \ 0 All that  { {  | Yardwork x ss  i] BUT -  i Beiore Yo AN All Those Dead Leaves,  feeds, snc Branches, Ceti Your Fire Department (BCFD #5) and| Obiain Permission  Cail 293-4275  Page 15  SEPTEMBER  SUN MON TUE WED THU FRI SAT  OCTOBER  SUN MON TUE WED THU FRI SAT  Holiday Bazaar Sunday, November 13th 1Gam - Spm FIRE HOUSE ON PASEO DEL NORTE  