The SHHA announced its annual meeting to be held on June 7, 2008, with the intention of conducting election of new board members, presentations, and a town hall. The SHHA Board expressed the necessity for community involvement, with a door prize drawing being considered to encourage attendance. New officers named were Ed Tull (Treasurer) and Marsha Thole (Secretary), with other nominees from various professional fields. Betsy Rodriguez joined the SHHA team as Lena Martinez departed for Colorado. The organization's chairpersons, holding an asset account of $12,936.60, also revealed an outflow of $10,568.23 with an improvements and legal reserve at $146,592.00. The total accounts equated to $28,690.50 and $4,116.59. The Bylaws Committee underscored work on making the bylaws clearer, including changes to the terms and conditions for the Directors in the Board of a nonprofit organization. Proposed amendments for Section 3.14 on Resignation and Removal of Directors and Section 4.1 on Officer Terms suggest changes to the process of directors’ removal or resignation, as well as modifications to the officers' terms of service. The other focus of the proposed amendments was Article V. Committees, with two significant changes: first, the allowance of an officer to hold a chairman position in a committee, and second, the merging of the Parks and New Development Committee and the Traffic and Safety Committee into a new Parks and Safety Committee simplifying overlapping issues. The SHHA is planning an open house event at the SHHA office on May 3, 2008, to attract new members. The Architectural Control Committee (ACC) approved various construction and renovation projects, and the Sandia Heights Coffeehouse Concert Series is set to resume in September. The Association offers services like notary and tram passes. Community events include the Sandia Heights' 5th Annual Artist Studio Tour in mid October, the monthly Book Club, a progressive dinner event, and the annual Garden Walk. SHHA residents were urged to check the SHHA website for more updates regarding these local events and the Association’s activities.