The SHHA president, Sy Caudill, recently clarified that members need to inform the office in advance when attending or presenting at BOD or Committee meetings due to space restrictions. The board opted for neutrality on safety related matters, like speed limits and response times, taking on a mediator role between the county and members. Among other successful activities, road paving projects were initiated within Sandia Heights, and members were encouraged to participate. The county's Operation and Maintenance Director gave a rundown on the process of the county's handling of traffic issues, following state law standards. The county conducted a speed study on San Rafael Avenue and plans to present results at a town hall meeting which also presents local residents with a chance to meet and ask questions from the officials involved. The treasurer's report revealed a positive cash flow with cash inflows at $13,275.55 and outflows at $11,726.36, and an overall bank & cash of $171,216.29. In efforts to build valuable resources for the community, the SHHA encouraged the use of a contractor evaluation form for services availed by residents. To improve resident experience and safety, the concern about lacking foot trails leading to pedestrians, joggers, and cyclists, sharing roadways with automotive traffic was addressed, and residents were advised to use visibility vests for safety, the vests being supplied by SHHA. Recycling was also discussed, Larry the manager of SHS suggesting a drop off zone for recyclables considering the prohibitive cost and time of curbside recycling pickup. The Architectural Control Committee approved several projects but declined a storage shed at 636 Cougar Loop and 2875 Brushwood Street. The 5th Annual Artist Studio Tour was held in October 2008 and a "Closet Cleaner Sale" was held as a fundraising event by The Church of the Good Shepherd Preschool in September. Upcoming local events include the Cork & Fork Group annual organizing meeting on September 13th and a hike organized by the Sandia Heights Wildflower Club on September 6th. In addition, the SHHA announced their annual photo contest for the 2009 Directory, open for amateur photographers residing in Sandia Heights until November 15.