Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  July-August 2002  a3  ie President’s Comments: President’  The extended drought has created a high fire danger in the Sandia Heights area We are asking all residents to be mindful of the fice danger and to remove dead trees and brush Please help us make Sandia Heights safe forall ‘our residents. ‘The Eagle Rock refuse center is located near Alameda, 2 blocks north of San Pedro NE.  Good progress has been made toward the development of Cedar Hill Park. We have ‘met with Bernalillo County officials to gain an understanding of how the funding process works (See article on this page by Bob Christman)  Representatives of Sandia Heights Services [The Utility Company for Sandia Heights} will be atthe August 14° Board of Di- rectors meeting to discuss their recent appica- tion for a water rate increase.  Several elected officials have been in- vited to the September Board of Directors meeting to discuss additional. funding of Cedar Hill Park's construction, the redistriting of our New Mexico state representative, and the city county unification effor.  You are always weleome to attend our Board of Directors meeting. If you want us to reserve time for you to speak to the Board please call the office [797-7793] and let us know  Cedar Hill Park Update: ‘by Bob Christman  Representatives of SHHA had a meeting with ‘Tim Cummins, District 4 County Commissioner, and the Beraillo County Park Department on August 2, 2002 to discuss the progress on Cedar Hill Park. The discussion included SHHA offering a $19,000.00 con- tribution from its Open Space Fund towards Park de- sign and construction. Approval ofthe $19,000.00 do- nation from the SHHA Open Space Reserve will be decided at the SHHA Board of Directors August 14, 2002 meeting. The money would te added to the ‘County's Cedar Hill Park Trust Fund. The County was ‘very appreciative ofthe offer and indicated tis would ‘add enough money to the Cedar Hill Park Fund to start the process of going out for bids to design and begin ‘construction of Phase lof the park  Phase I of the Park could be parking places (probably four), swing ses, shade pavilion, and maybe ‘walking tral) These items are being discussed and will be finalized when the park is designed and ap- proved. The County is prepared to start the paperwork ‘and proceed during the next several months.  Presently there is money available from the original bond that was used to purchase the property in December 2000 and funds provided by our State Leg- islature. With the addition of the funds from SHHA, there is now enough money to actively proceed with ‘design and construction of Cedar Hill Park ~ Phase 1  This project has been the result of six years of neighborhood and SHHA effort to prevent an ap- proved high density housing development of nineteen Units from being built onthe subject property  Cede Hill Park will be connected to the Tram- ‘way Bhd, Trail and accessible for use by the entice community  Treasurer's Comments: f  By Rick Neon. Trewarer Email: rmlsont#4 tan com  Entering my thi year as SHHA's treasurer and ‘working on the third SHIA Budget gave me cause 10 ‘reflect on the many questions that have been raised with respect othe reason fr some association expenditures.  ‘There are always various. opinions on what projets should have top priority within any homeowners association, especially one as large as ours. Thus, we who Volunteer to work for the betterment of our community are coften between that proverbial Rock and a Hard Place. Having been a member of SHHA since 1989 gives me ‘enough background to say that I have no doubt that cach 'BOD has tied to make those choices that they felt would best serve our community, certainly we have tied.  "Now some data about the $124,923.72 spent inthe 20012002 that may be of interest and help explain where ‘ur faring comes fom and where and why i goes FUNDING for 2001/2002: [major sources}  > 26% bom fees for Architectural eve  > 11,356 fom Advertsing inthe Git and Dietory > 149% fom Members does >  ‘£59 fom reserve  WHERE DID IT GO in 2001/2002: [a few items}  F128 for PuliationsCommuncatons  > 11M for Lite Cloud Park Woes and those blue smaers by ou fre hydrants  > "92% for insrace, eificers and directors ibility protection, pus general ability and proper  Frotection. Many companies have had rats increased Sore or mre So fr our increase has only been 33%, 11.89% legal fees, very small percent is for legal scion then by SHIA fae ake Chavess Note on ‘popes 10 and 11). hae ft is ~ yours past $50.00 ‘et hou today $150.00 per hour for lea counsel > 16% for office ret. igh, phone, security, cleaning, supplies and et. ~ this has provided a mach seeded ace t work to hep 30+ us of records and a place for you of te community to make cont withthe > 279% for sta, everyone gets eter service with the ‘alle office and ot having someone keep fest, {wert fom ther ene a as done in he pt Hope this answers a few questions! Always fel fee to ‘all or write 10 ak for information or 1 let us know ‘your felines.  Following the Board lection at the June Annual meeting, we welcome two new members to the Committee: Chery! Iverson and Ralph Rudolph,  {As noted in the last Grit issue, the Committe’ primary objective this year will be to get the SHHA ‘website current, The Bourd and Committees sections of the website have already been updated and work is being done on the forms and covenants sections right now. We ‘would like 19 know what information you would lke to hhave available on the website. We welcome your ‘comments and suggestions on how we can make the ‘Website more usefal to you. Please email all comments and suggestions to  shha@sandiahomeowners.rg-  We've also working on updating the information for the annual Residents Directory that will be published fin January. Last year we put alot of work ito automating the director database. which substantially reduces the Staff time needed to produce the directory. Now we want to make sure that the information in the directory is accurate. Please look at your lating in the directory and send any changes to the SHHA office. If you are not an SHHA member, you can contact the SHHA office 10 ‘Verify the information that i inthe directory.  ‘Last year, we published the Residents Directory ‘cover in color forthe first time and we had a beautiful picture ofthe Sandia Mountains taken by Rick Nelson on the cover. We're looking for another great picture forthe 2003 Residents Directory cover. If you have & special picture of a scene in our community that you would Tike considered for the next cover please submit it to the ‘SHHA office.  This issue of the Grit continues the Gardne:’s (Calendar and Theme Gardens article series from Dan ‘Caudill. As always, we encourage you to submit articles, Jeers, and suggestions on things that you would lke 10 seein the Grit. Let us know how we're doing so that we ‘can mae the Grit ever better.  i)  7  Tah Architectural Control Committee Goals for 2002/2003 Board Year  iy Joa ME. Cofey, Chair  Continue to enjoy and improve upon the open ‘communication established with SHHA members in the last Board yar.  Ensure that plans and work detailed in project application are fully compliant with applicable declaration of restrictions covenants before ACC approval  Continue to improve guidelines tandardseritria for employment by ACC members and all property ‘owners to more effectively and fairly determine ‘compliance with those specific covenant restrictions that are cutesy vague and subjective  Provide at leat one member to any group formed boy ot under the SHIA Board to develop a draft set ‘of restrictive covenants fer employment by SHA property owners inthe revision ofthe restrictive ovenant fr thie particular units  Examine feasibility and develop formal procedures. to more effectively employ elecronic means (elephone and e-mail) o formally communicate With SHIIA property and homeowners submiting ‘nguiris and applications tothe ACC. Give SHIA property and homeowners the option to receive ‘ACC decisions and related letters via email instead of US postal mail  ‘Work closely with the Covenant Support Committee (CSC) to ensure the ACC and CSC sre employing the same standards sad criteria in enforcing compliance with existing covenants for cach unit within Sandia Heights.  Ensure thatthe ACC portion ofthe SHIA website is complete and current. Work with and support the ‘Communications and Publications Commitee  ‘website manager to maintain the currency ofthe ACC ponion of the website  Develop and submit at east one ACC ate for ack Grit pubicaton  Covenant Support Committee By Frank Soper  Any resident who has shied the Covenants for Sandia Heights must be aware that there i significant room for improvement. The Sandia Pesk Tram Company ‘established the majority ofthe covenant in the arly 1970's as units were developed, and they have never been amended.  'SHHA was given the responsiblity for covenant enforcement in 1991. Due to many vague areas within ‘ur existing covenants often difficult to determine the validity of a complain.  For the 2002/2003 Board Year, the major goal ofthe ‘Covenants Support Commie is wo develop a set of ‘model covenants tobe used a a guide forthe residents of each unit to update the covenants for their unit. We ‘may need two or three model o encompass the diverse dwelling types within Sandia Heights. Because this efor will initially require a huge amount of research int the existing covenants, which the six CSC members cannot expect to complete without help from other residents, we re RECRUITINGIBEGGING for assistance. Ifyou ean donut afew hours each week toward the benefit of ll resident, please call Frank ‘Soper (856-5560) or the SHIA office (797-7795).  Another goal for his term sto significantly educe the ‘volume of complaints we receive concerning residents ‘who have allowed their tl ees to become a view sereen for their neighbors and those who do not remove trash/debris fom tei propery ina timely ‘manner. More information about these annoyances will be fonhcoming  iy ‘ + gah,  ihe Grit  Page 3  Tyas 5009  All the Trash That's  Fit to Print By Ralph Rudolph  Sandia Height isa very special and beautiful community with high quality architecture, spacious Tots, and unique high desert landscaping. These com bine to make any stroll through our neighborhoods a feast for the eyes. But it takes effort keep our community beautiful, not just on the part of the ‘SHH, but from you as wll.  The Covenant Support Committee works ‘hard to make sure hat all homeowners pay tention to the various covenants which exist tO assure that ‘our community remains atractve, and we ae all for- tunste that most homeowners do willingly comply ‘with most of these legal requirements. But there i fone glaring example that is frequently violated by _many homeowners: trash disposal.  Many homeowners probably don’t know that ‘Beralilo County has rules about wash disposal, such as that trash should not be put out earlier than $ P.M, cn the day prior to pickup or later than 7AM. on pickup day, and that trash should not remain on the ‘curb for more than 24 hrs. Believe it of not, here are fines for violating these rules! These can be found at Bemco.gov if you are curious.  (Ears mse: The link 1 Bernailo Coun ordinances  hap bernco gow ordinances! Ordinance Chapter °0 “Sod Waste, Secon 70-36),  Let's fae it. A stro through our comenunity is not enhanced by various trash bags, boxes and bar- rels that remain atthe cuth for days on end. And, of course, our various animal friends do have a bit of « habit of tearing into some ofthis trash, seating it about, which creates even more of an eyesore. So, please, do your part to keep our community atrac-  “Bur, you may say, “I will be out of town a few days, vo T have t0 put my trash out early, Pm sorry that this is not in compliance, but I have no cther choice. 1 sure don't want it stinking up my house!”  [Not so! You have several other choices.  > First, you can ask one of your neighbors  take the trash to the curd for you. (It will be helpful if you invest in several reashcans with rollers They'te available at many lecations foe reasonable pices Get the ones with lids that lock as trash doesn't necessarily smell good). Tell your neighbor that you'l return the favor if they are out of town,  > ‘Second, we have several neighborhood youngsters. some of whom advertise in The Grit, who would be happy’ eam few extra dollars taking the trash out for you. All it takes is a phone call. Now, ‘wasn't that easy? You've just helped make this nicer place to lve. Thanks!  We are frequestly asked what do with haz- ado wastes sich 8 poisons, ices, oem, tartercs, poo! chemicals and soch. Do not Incade them in your trash? Rinchem, Ine, located at 6133 th Blvd, pone 345-3685 wil seep them, They are open 130-430 weekdays, and 8-3 on Saturday. There's bonus for Visiting them: They havea ree re-use center and you can pck up pats cc that you ‘ay nced fr some small jo around the house  1f you have any question om trash oF rey- cling, pease fel fee w call he SHELA office a 797- 7793, Ld on weekday, You'l find the sal courte 0s ad heb.  NOTICE  Representatives of Sandia Heights Services will be at the next SHHA Board of Directors meeting to explain and answer questions about their recent application to the State of New Mexico for a water rate increase,  You are welcome to attend!  This meeting is on Wednesday August 14° at 7:00 PM. The Meeting will be tthe William Sibrava Sheriff's substation at 10401 Holly, NE (he comer of Eubank and Holly, one block north of Paseo del Norte.)  Gait iz  A.S.A.P, Mortgage Inc.  Sahedor Chavez Michele Marie Manson ane ‘Meas peat Mobi'08 54 4682 Mobi 508.228.5405  ‘Sehubl espaol Rae tan al ine bow Wecantelpyou Eaceleat ine to einance  2001 San Peto NE + Abuquerque, NM 87110  “a HAN RDA cournn ED COHEN  |-WINDOW WASHING —-UPHOLSTERY| |-HANDYMAN WORK 30 YRS. EXP.  RELIABLE ~ REASONABLE 286-7575  Ab Pigott No exe Long Ta Cae Specs  822-9280  Representing ie arte [ing youssepuona  5 Bk Bar Lop Abu. NU 87122 fs 07a506 Parte rao cocoa evraskowrey  oan wo Ss pt en yn  General Bact Capea Assurance Company  TEL: $05/296-TAPE (8273)  ‘4, WINDOW  <a CLEANING  CURT BRANCH  + Screen & Sch + No Fee To You For Our Free Estimates & Guaranteed Work  Call 275-2758  Serving Sandia Heights Sine 1987+ wes: Hondhilacom  Prefered Pinte |  AAOMIIE LEAKS Heating, & Cooling, The EX-EL Company, Inc. "Where Ex-Elence is Essential” 244-3935 wow exefoam com <Free Estimates -BBB Gold Star Member -30 Yrs. Experience -20 Yr. Warranty Availabld  Dad Molece  265-0708 10 Vegjie NE Abuqverepe, NM: 87108  BIEN MUR  INDIAN MARKET CENTER From the inion Arts fo You  (Comcast  Kurt Kornman nine Stes Feorecetae  Traction & Cantemporory Sewoly, Potten. Kaehinot Foss, Fokort Fuge  eMore  SPECIAL REWARDS FOR INFORMATION leading o convictions: $2000 for major vandalism in Sandia Heights, $1000 and 85000 additional  for arson a 96 ‘a Jan 14, 2000. Call the SHIA office % 31797-7298 for nore information ©  SHHA NEEDS  you! ALL SANDIA HEIGHTS RESIDENTS: SHHA wants to serve ALL of you  We Need Your Input, Your Concerns, Your Opinions, Your Participation  If our community is to continue to grow and improve  WE NEED EVERY RESIDENT TO BE A MEMBER OF SHHA  There are a number of important issues coming up this year: Increase in Water Rates Acquiring more Open Space and Parks Covenant Revisions Consolidation of Bernalillo County with Albuquerque  So come on board - Join your neighbors Let's make this community even better than it already is Contact the SHHA Office to become a member now. P: 797-7793; E-mail: shha@sandiahomeowners.org  All of us - together - can make a difference.  [ica Pase? Toly-Avaust 2002]  Holiday Lights in the Heights By Kit Anderson  ‘You might think i's too eady, but the Second Annual SHA Holiday Lights inthe Heights, 8 project with electric luminacias, i already under way. Under the Community Service and Membership Committe, plans are being made to continue and cexpand last Year's ven) successfal beginning, and ‘We're looking for your ideas.  Holiday Lights in the Heights is a way t celebrate the holiday season in a distinctive way in ‘ur distinctive neighborhood. Electric luminaias are haul with the architectural syles we have, and using them respects the wishes of residents for low light levels. Last year residents purchased clectnc luminara at the wholesale price, and neighbors shared hints and tips for displaying them and ‘ataching them to stucco,  ‘SH resident Kit Anderson, professional ‘organizcr, has apain volunteered to make the electric Tuminara available at wholesale prices (plus the required tax) though her ‘Organizing Systems, and we displaying. and attaching tipa, plus any new ones residents contribute. Watch for ordering and other information in the nex issue of ‘The Git.  But for now, start brainstorming, How can you use electric luminaria to decorate your home for the holiday scason? Would you like to add to the celebration this year? Some ileas to stimulate your “creativity! a neighborhood block party on Devemve 7th s0 people can put up luminaria together, help cach othe, or just meet and talk in our yards; a Best Use of Flectric Luminaria contest, for which we would need donated prizes and volunteer judges. What would you lke to do? Call Kit ot 856-3667 and Jeter know 50 we can add your ideas and put things  a pegoge,  ew Fire Fighting Capability  Added to the Sandia He ‘At the beginning of the current fire season, the Forest Service contacted Sandia Peak Uulity ‘Company sbout possible locations foe a dip tank 10 Provide quick response fire fighting capability with 3 helicopter. Several factors sere considered before selecting the site adjacent wo the Sandia Peak Utility offices. Obviously a water source was needed a the site. Also, the site had to be ffee ffom major bstructions in order to allow safe arival and eparture of 2 helicopter. Following site section, 2 ‘smal fire hydrast was installed by Sandia Peak Uilty ‘Company personnel, a temporary 700-gallon dip tank was installed by Forest” Service personnel, the helicopter flew some practice approaches, and an ‘operating plan was developed that everyone hoped ‘would never be pu into effect,  ‘On June 4 an afteroon lightning. strike started a smal ie inthe Sandia Mountain Wilderness just above the Elena Gallegos Picnic acea. Very quickly the helicopter was seen cizcling the area, sssessing the situation, The helicopter then ferried several fire fighters to the site and began fying loads ‘of water from the dip tank tothe fire. A circling twin engine aeplane also dropped two smokejumpers on the fire to join the others that bad arrived by Inelicopter. The helicopter comes to a hover over the dip tank and then slowly lowers a 100-gallon bucket ito the tank to fill the bucket and then fies off to ‘dump the water on the fire. A dozen or $0 trips were ‘completed hefore darkness fell and the helicopter retired for the night The personnel on site kepe the fire contained though the night and the fire was Flly «extinguished by the next day.  (On, July 12 there was a fire just above Sandia Heights south of the Tram. This fire was ‘extinguished in mach the same manner atthe Jane 4 fie, and again the fire fighters were able to we the helicopter 1 fy loads of water from the dip tank 49 the fie  hts Area  The July 12° fie above us.  [fhe Grit  Page we  Tuly August 2009  Letters to the Editor:  Legal Fees  ‘As a member of the Sandia Homeowners Assocation singe our move to Albuquerque and Sandia Heights in 1996, my bushand and I were greatly distrbod by the Dudget report in the latest Grit As paying dics ‘members, we find it highly objectionable that a signifiant part of our dues is going towards lawsuits, especially those against our own neighbors! We are curious a8 10 just what are these “major covenant violations” and who is the one authorizing all these Javsuits! We refuse to pay increased dues, only to have it go towards legal fees and increased insurance premiums, secondary to lawsuits. As eleced members, fel its the SHIA Boards responsibility, to be able to work with all residents of the Sandia Helghis ‘community ané NOT take them to court  Kim Federici  ator’ Note: This topic was dicused extensively atthe “ily SHA Bord Meeting. For he ast year, 13% foal “SHILA reenue was expended on legal fees See Treaurer= report on page #2 for more detailed information  Why Sandia Heights???  Fourteen years ago, this November, my Wife, Gloria, and I started looking for another home here in Albuquerque. We decided on Sandia Heights even though we, a all, paid a premium forall the things that make up this unique community. Some reasons for ‘making Sandia Heights our home:  > tis counry - with winding rads and open space, ‘yet near the City with its hospitals, entertainment {and shopping.  ‘The clean sel of Mountain ar rushing down from the Sandias  A glimpse of a deer, rabbit, maybe a roadrunner, ‘and all the ther wild ones who share ths space with us.  ‘The views of the Mountains andthe City below us, ‘what great views we havell  ‘The guarantee provided by the recorded Covenants that this would not change.  Sus look around, what we love is easy tose.  For these and other things we came, we stayed, and wwe werk hard to help keep our paradise the wonderful place that itis  “How sad we would be should it change!! Please help your association preserve what we havel!  >  >  Rick Nelson  Beraalillo County Ordinance See. 6-86, Animal waste. ir nll to permit an animal to defecate on Pali or  Private Property ater than he property ofthe re the ‘animal wes uc animal wat i oma removed and reper peed fy the person ving dy of he  Leave only Paw Prints:  | recently returned to New Mexico after living ‘out of sate for 12 years. Retuming to AMbuguergue is ‘dream come true for me, and living in Sandia Heights is something I never dared dream. When I was in college 1 used to hike inthe foothills here. My dog and I could ‘walk for hours and not see another person and never & mountain bike. Albuquerque has grown and things have ‘changed in some places s0 much that I don’t recognize ‘them anymore.  ‘Sandia Heights is now fully populsted with people and dogs who walk the streets and the nearby foothills wails. "What T have noticed, which i Lisappointing o me, is that some people do not clean up afer theie dogs.  ‘Sandia Heights is a premier home locaton in Albuquerque; not the sort of place ane would expect to find such disregard for maintaining a clean and respectful exterior.  On the ail access 1 use, 1 found the ‘sccumlation of dog feces tay unbearable and such an ‘unpleasant change from my memories tht I cleaned it up. hauled approximately 100 pounds of dog feces back to my howe for proper dispossl. It was aa extremely unpleasant task. AC easton that portion of ‘the trail {have wiped the slate clean for dog owners that have notin the past fet the need 10 pick up afer their dog. Out of consieraton forall users ofthe wail and as part of your responsibility as a dog handler, we ‘espectflly ask you to please pickup after your dog.  Sincerely,  Vivian, Pecos (Shepherd Cross 8 y.0,) & Rio (American Fakimo aka. Spit 12¥.0)  rt  fieGa Page sd  Tuy = August 2009)  ANote: From Board Member Jake Chaver  ‘As a second-year Board member, | believe itis appropriate to share some observations about the SHHA, its Board of Directors and some ofthe committees that | hhave assisted this past year. Specifically, | am focusing here on matters faced by the Board and its committees felating to our myriad covenants in Sandia Height. {am also asking for your support to increase: membership ‘dues in order to make it possible for our committees to be effective in covenant support and enforcement. 1 believe our current dues of $5.00 per month are ridiculously low if considering only what the association does for its members in the areas decribed below:  ‘There ae other needs, of cours, that would be ‘ewer met with addtional financial resources, and pethaps other Board members will address those needs fn subsequent articles, For now, the matter of covenant support and enforcement seems to me to be reaching & crite stage requiring adequate financial resources in order for us to successfully continue this important aspect ofthe Association's legal obligations.  Before discussing covenant support and enforcement, | wish to state that the immediate past Board has been excellent. I sce the current Board a6 no less capable, Although there are always differences of ‘opinion on issues considered by the Board, during my tenure, iis members have demonstrated an atitude with ‘only one goal: to make Sandia Heights fulfill its potential a a great place olive.  ‘As you know, Sandia Heights was conceived and established by a group of individuals acting as developer, platting and developing the various parts of ‘Sandia Heights apparently piecemeal over some period ‘of time. As rest, the covenants changed as cach unit ‘was plated. Today we have 36 units in Sandia Heights tnd 36 sels of covenants. | believe none of these covenants contain identical clauses (Editor's Note: You can view all covenants online a: Imup:/sme.sandiahomeowners.org’cavenants him! or ‘you may obtain @ prin copy of the covenans for your ‘ait atthe SHHA office)  From the time the first units were developed in ‘the 19605 uni the mid 1990s, fr all practical purposes, fovenant enforcement was the province’ ofan architectural control committee ‘established and ‘maintained by the developers Al the covenunts provide  ‘that decisions ofthe architectural contol commitee “are final". Those of us on the current ACC have no Knowledge whether the committees appointed by the evelopers ever took legal actions to enforce. the ‘covenants or whether anyone challenged a final decision ‘of those committees in court, Nor do we know whether ‘any property owner exercised his or her right 10 take Jegal action to enforce the covenants.  In the late 1980s and mid 1990s, the developers of Sundia Heights and the SHIA (apparently organized by the developers) executed agreements through which the responsibilty for covenant enforcement was assigned to an Architectural Control Committee (ACC) to be established and maintained by the SHIA, Since then, each SHHA Board has appointed members to serve fn an ACC. I believe it w be obvious that covenant enforcement can be a most dificult task-requiring a judicious approsch 10 each decision and a staunch resolve to enforce it once made. It is evident from records kept by SHHA that these commities have Sruggled to. tablish and. maintain process for ‘covenant enforeement.  ‘During the past year, the ACC has been fervent in fulfilment ofits tasks. The ACC has, durin this time, adopted a process for its operation, revised applications for new construction and additions and promulgated written standards for various aspeets. of covenant iterpretation and for granting variances. The ACC has been sued twice and has filed one lawsuit t0 stop unauthorized construction. The defense of decisions made by the ACC has indeed been difficult, but nevertheless successful. I believe the ACC has eared and therefore deserves appreciation and respect from the SHHA membership.  'No one can prevent the filing of a lawsuit (even ‘one that’s frivolous) by someone determined to do so. ‘When the ACC (and usually the entre Board) is sued, a defense must be mounted. However, having to file a lavisuit to enforce the covenans weighs heavily on the ‘ACC, if for no other reason, because itis an expensive process. It is also an unpleasant process for the  in fulfilling its obligations, certain trends have ‘become clear to the ACC. Sandia Ficights is now almost completely developed. Many homes are selling for the second. or thd time. Some of the remaining undeveloped lot have remained undeveloped because the topography of the lot isnot wel suited fo the kind of structure most individuals would like w build. Consequently, as new homeowners move into Sandia Heights there is attend to make extensive additions 19 existing stature orto pace large homes on lois not ‘well sulted for that purpose. Both ofthese tends lead 10 ‘xpectatons on the part of ew and potential  he Ge Page #10 july - August 200  “A NOTE” continued  homeowners thatthe ACC will readily grant variances to limits imposed by the setback requirements ined in almost all covenants.  The setback provisions in Sandia Heights’  tribute 19 be preserved. The ACC examines requests for variances 1 setback provisions very carefully and applies a clear standard in order to determine whether a ‘variance is justified. Increasingly, the ACC receives  Bye SUTIA droge pst ex hes soporte he ‘ACC's decisions and successfilly defended them in Iithption,  1 belive the provision in the covenants declaring that decisions ofthe ACC are final is valid and enforceable. And, I believe the ACC ison the right track to proect the beauty and character of Sandia Heights. However, staying oa this track will most likely lad t0 continued litigation at Jest until a successful track record is established to discourage those who consider litigation or blatant violations of the covenants as ‘means to attain improper objectives. This means tht, in the near term, we will most likely experience some significant increases in tigation expenses resting from ‘ACC actions.  1 wishin this note also to discuss efforts of the Covenants Support Committee (CSC) to improve our covenants. This comsnitee wll propose tothe entirety of ‘Sandia Heights a revision of all the covenants to make them clearer, stronger and more uniform. It is believed ‘that these steps woald ead to better understanding ofthe ‘covenants and a greater motivation than exists now on ‘the part of residents to abide by them faithfully.  1, for one, will sponsor an effort 10 include mandatory membership in SHHA as « provision in the revised covenants. In many instances Where developers have foreseen the wily of a homeowners association, they have established it rough clauses ia the covenants and made membership mandatory. After observing the  SUIHA for the past year, Ihave come to believe such a scheme 6 appropriic and fcc  ‘As you know if you have read your covenants, 7S percent of the owners in any unit must agree to any changes in the covenants. The process of changing covenants in all units is a legal process necessarily ‘involving some formalities and requiring a considerable cfr. Thi means that there will be some additional ‘expenses that cannot be avowed even though your faithful vohintece hoard member will Jo de work and, ‘we hope, by others we wil try to recruit  1 will mention anocher factor that may result in ditional expenses for the Associaton. That is the ‘goth of tees planted by the earlier residents of Sandia Heights. Some of these tres have grown very larg, and in many cases, now obstruct views of the city oF the ‘mounains previously enjoyed by homeowners. Planting sand maintenance of such ees is 2 vilation of the ‘covenants and is becoming a serious enforcement issue for the CSC. may be necessary forthe SHA to bear ‘the cost of some tree removal inthe near future, and in ‘some case, this cost could inclde litigation expenses.  ‘In conclusion, I believe very strongly that the  increased substantially. To this end, 1 ask that you treopa ee ff es neon an eppropite By supporting an increase in membership dues.  ‘Whether to increase dues andthe amount of any  The SHHA office: is located at 2B, San Rafael Gust behind the Subway)  Hours are: Monday through Friday, 11 AM 10 5 PM, The phome number is: 797-7793  Email: Sit{A@sonliohomereners ore  All SHHA Members and Sandia Heights residents ‘are encouraged o attend SHHA board meetings. ‘SHH Board meetings are normally at 7:00 PM on the second Wednesday ofeach month atthe William Sibrava ‘Sherif's substation at 10401 Holly, NE (the corner of Eubank and Holly, one block north of Paseo del Nort) ‘See the SHHA website for upcoming meeting  (hulp: woe sardiaomeomners org board ham)  Gi  Dugust 300: ‘The “Natural” Interpretation of Road Regulations By Wala Coupee  Living in the Heights, 1 am a frequent driver of Tramway Boulevard. I often get very upset when t am behind a dive traveling just $0 MPH. Ihave to ‘move quickly into my passing routine, People should ‘know by now that all speed signs are posted atleast $ MPH slower than the actual sped intended.  ‘But even ifthe driver ahead of me, in the ‘ourside lane, is traveling this extra $ MPH, be of she ‘offen slips back a few miles per hour for some un- ‘known reason, causing me 1 take drastic steps. 1 am. forced to pass him as soon as possible at 75 MPH  their destination anyway. They are just not as alert as Tram. You ought to see how quickly 1 ean bolt back and forth without even using a tum signal o hitting  ‘Another annoyance is drivers who insist on entering ry lane that are not yet traveling as fast as am. | pull up fast behind them so they know they have intruded on my lane. Then, when they haven't  sceleted 10 the tffi's speed within the given time, hit the thot, swerve around ther, and it in his instrcts them on comet merging prove: ars, and peeves losing ary time ping oe rewt menaction  We all understand that speed limits on Tramway Boulevard should be increased to $5, s0 we can in- terpret that as 60. Ifthe lights were set at 60, we would never have any traffic problems caused by speeding. And, we would not need to run red lights, providing we abide by our interpretation ofthe mean- Jing of the yellow light within six or so car lengths.  ‘We should all follow my example, and concer our- selves wth the safety of others. Become conscious of the lives of others. Road regulations are thee forthe Jess informed drivers. People who die onthe road for ‘most reasons are simply obeying laws that must be Interpreted by knowledgeable divers like me  Eitters Nose: Me Cooper's tongueincheek arte is ‘worth reading tose f yu or someone you bmw ehibts 207 of his "Nanwral Ierpretation™ behaviors at times Speeding continues 19 be w commaniy concern and I's very easy to unconsciously exceed the posted speed limits ‘ely oe yu aed of Trey Bid  me  Wanted ~ Your Words By Jim Cook  Do you have an idea for an article or series of ati- cles? Got atopic you want to discuss? Ever wanted 10 write a shoet story or a poem? Have s home mainte- ‘nance, gardening, of other useful ip w share? If 90, rab a pen or your word processor and stant Writing.  ‘The Grit sf? is always looking for articles, poems, storie, tips, letters, and just about anything else you ‘would like to write about that would be of interest 10 the Sandia Heights community. Contributing some- thing to the Grit gives you a chance to write about ‘something of interest of concem to you of to share your knowledge and expertise on something that will benefit others  ‘Submissions for the next Grit issue are due Septem- ber 13. Drop your prose by the office or ems shhaasandiahomeowners.rg.  Gea het  Commercial Classifieds  se  ad's Episcopal Church | 7171 Tenapson NI |  Atbuguergoe NM |  ‘s00300 |  (itd Care Avaiate ‘Sunday Momaing  | Sunde & Weekday  | Programs for Chen, Teens, Ade  Call tema information  shade ewtink met aap ome carton pe ics  ‘Sandia Presbyterian Church 10706 Paco det None NE ‘Albaguegue, NM #7  356-5000 Free Summer Concert Series ln the ne Family Life Center Saturday, Aug 24 @ 7:30 PM ‘Govpe Fit/Acoue oood New"  Alpha Series  inne, vdeo, dscnsion Preview: Te, Aug27 @ 6:15PM Sern: Sep 1340 Now 12.4 65 PM. (ChildCare Provides No Cot, Call #56040 opie,  Pall Regional Alpha Conference  Intemational Speskers September 0 October 1 Fos des all Mr, Jesse MoCo = 21-4804  Plants, Shrubs, & Trees  CENTURY PLANTS (AGAVE) | Sandia Heighs grown Mae get ascent plans in you serscape Venous ice Baga pices Call Rich 856-790  ‘Medicaid Long-Term Care Programs Personal cae was adda. Med id bent in September, 1999. The (oa of Media persnal cares he cderly dor abled com | Smerwineinthecomfor of tir | (ue homes end achieve the highest level of independence posite: To Te cigite for leica Perea + Have fll coverage Medicaid © Be2i yams ofa or oer + Regie aistance with) 0 | corre ace of dy ig. |  Fer more information call ACES  ersnal Cae Servic st 505.292- ARSE ora permeal cae apncy of your choice. Fil membes ay ‘uay a arepver and be pa op 1059.00 perhow |  GARDEN & LANDSCAPE | | EXPERTISE:  Ants design ination pling ‘ou culation rm one bs to ‘ole yard. Cried Horii provides consitatons aswel ers sevier Neighboriood referee Cone au, 29620,  HOUSECLEANING Experienced howscheepe with exe lent Sandia Heights references has | ‘Wesneays aleve ote Ts diay aval Call 71-6888 and ak Joyce Gren for more information. Personal Chef Shoppize: ution deiious food, ‘Clean op Sandia Heights references | celta chupes 792998  et care, House care, & Badysicing.  Senta Hej resident aval 0  ome fr you pete ase sl Pay  Sizing to. Cont Moly a 836- 129 fier 10:00 AM  Retired Hospice Nerse Sandia Heights Resdeot with super references ‘vailable for | House Siting & Pet Care  Call Anne at 856-6896  ‘Comments Wanted  Sanda Height renin a local  brine for ational averting  space and commercial clase a+  ‘ering ht we decided oy an  experiment inthis ssc  This i a prottpe section for Com  merial Csi Advertsing. We  took some ofthe many ad at ave  ‘en requested and produced a page  ‘of what thi section woul lok ie  So that you the reader wou! have a  ‘hance to provide fellack on ie  ‘ale to you, As moet Gr readers  nom, we have been able wo cover  the coat of all SHIA publications  | sisadvenising evens dslast | Yew This setion would allow sto Increase oar avetsng reverie wich we can we to provide ad  | soma seniceso SHIA Member  | etn kw wn you think  | Wei cossider all comments when we set pce, space and avalabilty |  | pcs Send omments by E-mail  | fo sttaandishomeowners.ey or bypostal mail the SHIA office  — i  (eta  Pas  Tay pagent 03  Why Join the SHHA? By Jim Cook  By now, you may be wondering ifthe Grit collided with a PBS pledge drive, In this issue, we've published several different articles and bout he coming an SHHA member. Over the last few months published several articles about different SHIA. ies and services provided to SHHA Members and Sandia Heights residents. However, until now, we ‘haven't published one article that atempts to commt- nicateall ofthe reasons for becoming an SHHA Mem- ber  Like all homeowner astocatons, on of the SHIA’ jor eponsbilties i enforcement ofthe commu rye etre covenants, There are man different ferspestives about covenants but mos wil agree hat Sandia eight" unigus character and high esrb ‘Sducin no small measure to the estrtive covenants pat in place by the orginal developer However, co¥e> ants alone do not make a community. The SHEA  ‘provides wide range of elitionl services to help  ‘hance the desirability of Sandia Heights asa tal  ‘Beat place olive. Curent SIA services provided  © SHMA Office and Staff in the jest under 0 Years thatthe SHIA office has been open and Staffed, it ha become “information cena” for ‘Sandia Heights residents on a wide range of topics, issues, and activities.  ‘+ Contractor Evaluation Book - Over the yours, SHIA Members have filled out forms evaluating ‘thee experiences with provider of services rang ing from airconditioning to xerisaping. These ‘evaluations are maintained athe SHIA office and may be used to check out how well a service pro- vider has performed for other members of the com munity.  ‘+ Community Representation ~ he SIMA repre= sents the interests of the Sandia Heights commu- ‘yal large in many different ways. Several ‘SHHA Committees have worked extensively with «ty and county agencies to (© Impeove rod safety © Obtain open space for parks © Oppose commercial development ‘Ongoing community representation activities form ‘important relationships that significantly improve the responsiveness of these agencies to concems of the Sandia Heights communsy.  ‘+ Community Events ~The SHIA'S 10 major ‘events are the annual wine tasting andthe annual  _mecting. These events provide Sandia Heights resides the opportunity 1 met ebers within the communi  ‘+ The Gritand Lite Grit The SHHA'snewsleter ‘provides information about SHIA activites, lal ‘vents, ad information on istics of concern to Sandi eiphis residents It lo provides all rec dents wih an oppetunty to speak ou on opis of ‘soncer and interest othe.  +The SHIA Website ~The SHHA’s website pro- ‘ies a presence online where Sandia Neigh rest dents can obtain information and forms a any tine  ‘+ SHILA Residems Directory ~The anal Resi dena Directoy fs avalbl ony to Sandia Heights residents SHHA Members receive one copy a 8 benefit of membership and reduced ost fe ad tional copies  + Sanda Heights Resident's Guide Publishes as fan inser in the anual Residents Diet, thin {Bae sa ich source of ea information rom a- ops o willie and xerscaping  (© Security Alert Email List ~ Available only SIMA Members SHIHA staff send alerts about ine cident affecting security such as vandalism or hla  Intakes money and time to provide each ofthese ser~ vices. Although we've been very successful in increas- ing outside income in the last year, dues stil provide the bulk of the SHIHA’s income x if you enjoy any of ‘these services and wart to se them continued and en- hhanced, your support by becoming an SHHA member is rita  (Over the last year, a number of new service ideas have ‘been discussed. Among these ideas are: fee o low ‘cost iam tickets, use of SHHA facilities such asthe high-speed. large-format copier and high speed Intemet ‘connection, relationships with local businesses for dis- ‘counts or additional services to Members, expanded ‘website and more online services. We would like to ‘now what services you woul lke to see the SHHA provide. Send us an email or drop usa brief note to let 1s know what services would give SHHA Membership ‘more valuc to you. We would appreciate your com ments on why you've chosen to be or nt to be an 'SHHA Member. Let us know what we're doing right {for you and what we could improve on. I's the only ‘way we can make the SHA better for everyone.  E-rail sha asandahomeowners org ‘Mail: SITHA, 21 San Rafael Ave NI Fax: 305-856-8548 Phone: 508-797-9303  Theat Fase  Say — Age  Sandia Services would like to thank the Sar thoughtful gifts given to the sani of Sai  ia Heights Commun jon and security staff. Sandia F in Services. ‘To sign up for security service please call John Picke  Tor the generous and nts Security in a division ing at 866-6347.  [Ravensements do nor represent an endoracment by SHA ors officer]  "THE STOFAC TEAM SELLS.  EliteHom  Nousrorac 249-719  379-2500  BESANDKA HITS  Enchantment Speeeh Language Pathology Services, LLC oe Victoria 8, Smidt M.S., CCC-SLP 4217 Montgomery Bled. NE. Albuquerque, New Mexico 87109 (505). 830-2220 Fax (505) 830-2400  piece ‘BAC:  BILL ARTMAN BAC inc, Rox Ese Broxetace  (ha ee NE  PREMIER SERVIC Repairs & Maintenance Fast - Rall - Reasonable LLeened-Insred = Bonded re Exit!  (Our “Target” is your “Satisfaction”  Are You Living Your Best Life? Support» Sacre» Tots» sight Challenge » vow » Moun  Colerain Encouragement Hoe  (Call for half our sample coaching session ‘505-856-180 Fan 505.856 9854  email: sgndg6ix etcom com  Sandia Environmental Designs Landscape Design & Consultation Cleanup & Hauling  Dan Caudillo (508) 856-6617  INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT and RETIREMENT PLANNING WORKSHOPS rack 1 ONE ‘BOOKS SOFTWARE NEWS, GIFTS AND MAGAZINES  THANK YOU TO ALL OF  REE Market Analyse ne ($25) 888-390  Sumer Sn Seven une Ag) 830A  ere, On Rah. Say aEresooeans Sa  peptone cogeacesta omy  TRMTNG  Dinter ond homes si nn 003 {Scena ncoming Sea  a Kitchens + Bathrooms « Home Additions Wltitiodetingmadeeasy:com 883-4040 Visit One of New Mexico's Largest ‘hitchen & Bath Showrooms  2426 Washington NE (bles. 5. of Menaul)  REMODELING  “, Linda Caldwell, crs, ont  Sandia Prosbyterian Church 12708 Panes st Nace NE 86.900  camer ccieeeree  entra SS  Ue # 51199  11910 Del Ray NE Abuquerque. NM 87122 (05) 056-5233  JEFF SPECK, C.G., Genoral Contactor  JADEnterprises Inc. Design & Constr wwe jaceanterprises.com  Thomas Smiat ‘ox Estate & Businens Law "2217 Montgomery NE Aequerque, NM E7100  Tom mi tomy, wishes to thank a of hie Sasa  ight cant neighbors for har supp and retra ‘Over the pas 25 years  ary August Use a pesticide with Thiodan® to contol torer Se your arsery profesional or  Gardner’s Calendar  Plant lettuce, earots, beets, radish and  ‘Your allergies may be caused by pollen {fom blue gramma and buflalo grasses. Place straw hay beneath melons, watermelons and pumpkins to prevent  Continue weeding your gardens to prevent reseeding especially ftom spurge. Last chance to divide ii, Mid-August  Comtinic deadheading pereanials and anual to extend the Blooming season. Plant onion sts for a second crop. Plant seeds of cool season biennals suchas pansies, sweet william, canterbury bells and  ‘Monsoon rains continue so coordinate sqeinklers with rin amount. Late August  Ferlize cool season lave (be grass and fess) as well as the rest of the garden. Be sure to mow coo! season lawns tall (3 to 4 inches) to keep the rots cool, What's blooming in August? Desert willow and vitex (tees); roses, Russian sage, blue ist spirea, butterfly bash, black dale, ‘crepe myrtle, pareyella, bird of paradise, and ‘ose of sharon (shrubs); silver lace vine and trumpet vine (vines); cherry sage, Mexican ‘evening primrose, red valerian, licorice mint, agastaches,zauschnera,bive plumbago, confederate rose, and pitcher ‘age (perensials) daylily and cama lily (bulbs) dali, geranium, lobeli, nasturtum, verbena, cosmos, zis, coleus, marigold, aster, and alyssum (annuals.  any September September 2 is Labor Day  ‘© Astemperature coos this a great time to plant e2ol season grass sod or seed (blue grass and fescus), just before hard freezes  + New Mexico State Fair runs fom September 602,  Mid September ‘A great ime to cut down unwanted trees before the sap begins to reverse flow tothe os, which will decrease the amount of| suckers the following spring.  ‘Timeto shop for fall bulbs to include; crocus, tulip, hyacinth, musear, daffodil, and narcsss,  ‘+ Plant coo! season annuals such as pansy, viola, dianthus, snapeagon, and primrose  ‘© Best ime to plat peony.  Need anew restr? Buy afresh one now.  ‘© Domot fed plants later than mid September, except for roses, which can be fed for another 2 or 3 weeks,  Late September  ‘Bring houseplants back inside before early freezes arrive.  4 Redhace watering requeney as plant needs become les and o prepare pans for their  winter dormane  Look for specials on plant and related  supplies going on sl this and next month  + Whats blooming in eptember? Desert willow (ees); roses, Russian sage, chamisa, rosemary butterfly bus, black dale, crepe ‘yl, bird of paradise and rose of sharon (shrubs); Silver lace vine and trumpet vine (ines); chery sage, Mexican evening rimros, cat coral els, autumn joy ‘sem, mums, ed valerian, core min, “austria, Boe phimbago, confederate ‘se, and pitcher sage (perennials); dayiy, Tats, ad cana ily bubs); dai, ‘omamental kale, pansy, viola, seapdragon, english primrose, lobia, geranium, rast, verbena, cosmos, aia, coleus, rmavgol, aster, and alyssum (annua).  4%  Page Tay August 2009  Designing The Moonlight (Twilight) Garden  ‘By Dan Cauilo  Wes Saturday night and the workweek is far Theret a fll moon out tonight as your  ‘© Any size of yard fom a small patio off the master ‘bedroom (especially for couples), an enclosed courtyard, toa large yard area  Consider an area that takes advantage of an inimetive view such asthe ety lights ora sunset the wes of In the east whore the tram lights can be sen ascending descending the Sania  ‘© Choose an area close tothe kitchen where food and drink is eat available  What Should I Include In My Moonlit Garden?  intresting during the daytime) but wse enovgh of thom to ahiove tho desired effect. If planting space isa problem, try puting plants in containers. Inclade fragrant plants (ower and flinge) as wells plants ‘wih an intresting branching structure that provide Interest when highlighted with candle or eects Tights. listing of these plans follows this article. Sounds are plesurabe and can set the perfect mood. This can include music, wind chimes, and water ‘Sounds should mote 100 dominant, ws Conversation will mos likely make up the majority of the evening's sounds.  Candlelight or electric igh provide the bes light 19 ‘mone safely around the garden lect ight can be ithe low voltage or solar powered. If candlelight is ‘wed, be sare to pt them in areas where the rak of fire is minimized. Candies can also provide a ‘wonderful fragrance and deter insects  [Be sare to use wide and suble walking surfaces, as tigitime walking s more hazardous than daytime ‘walking. Sorfoces such a crusher fines, concrete, and flagatne canbe light colored making i easier © see where you ae walking. The we of lighting slong  i MEMBERS CLASSIFIED ADS.  - ‘wou MmenTs EXPERIENCED 16 YEAR. EXPERIENCED 14 YEAR once ST nn ‘OLD BABYSITTER ‘OLD WORKER. ete Geet with Ks, God for ding od jobs around ‘Amamaran NM e722 ‘Available afterschool the house while you are away. Phone: 505.707.7708 | and on weekends. | Watering, picking up mail, taking —— ‘Call 821-0482 care of pets and MUCH MORE. wegrandioncmecwers cy | and ask for Beeky | Call 856-1483 and ask for Jordan  Wao Page a “seen  Editorial Stat BOULDERS WANTED | WANTED Communicators & Puticetions Preferable large ones!!! Another female runner SerScn ot It you ned to remove boules cll ford miley oy pace a breacton owe Fax Song He se ore | Cal Kipparalier pa SHHA Office | BSE S406 858-3406 tithe ‘anaes | wyraroup poy : . Office Hours: With Boy Scout Training and RETIRED Seo | OMIVEARonpsignse. | __ HOSPICE NURSE Leeland “Available for babysitting and ‘Sandia Heights Resident with sett house siting superb references available for Pye coming Howe Siting and Pet Care eM Fees | ‘AL 856-1283), | Call Anne - 856-6898 with to Sana Heigis wish 0 met | YMCA maby sting training |-—- Other non-smoking coupes for Bob Francs Preset Ave for bby siting Dead ga ih. Auth Fraser Vice Pree wi fo Doos Seo Fredech, Secy cndiar asthe RitNebon truer || tact Hilary ls Mart leah | ‘At 836-7003 ; wl Dick cet * PQUIFMENT FOR SALE Make Cher, s ewvne Nev Mee. sam Coty | FoR SALE Selig aly ent shop Geog Cont Ate SHIA office | ua wood werting pet  Tim ook SHIA win glass und gs ‘atedarae ans Lary Deore ‘andthe 2002 Dectory =  nid een || soon tay Gree —  Tle : PSM EE |! SIUHLA Otic as new hours to serve you beter ‘Gem Koren Sst Mend Monday through Friday from 11:00 AM to 5:00 PM Fine Muy | |  EAP atperasons | S paar The monthly SHHA Board of Directors Meet Tack Wolfe The meeting tarts at 7:00 PM and seated at  Jey Corea, ema | | The William Sibrava Sherifs Substation Lo  mean Page ae VERT PP]  ge  WN '3nowanonaTy Sto LIN ‘avd 30visod sn ‘Gis GaLWOSTd  ‘On June 8 Sandia Heights and their guests enjoyed visting five ‘marvelous gardens during the Annual Garden Walk, Each ‘garden was unique and demonsrated a wide range of gardening possibilities for our desert climate with ws  exotics, cactus, and vegetables,  ‘Many thanks tothe gracious hosts Michele & Gordon MeMillan Sara & AG. Warford Carolyn & Ray Ching Betty & Don Peterson,  Karen & Gil Raft  ‘tthe May mectng the following  ‘were elected for the coming year Peggy Atencio - President Khondeh Payne - Vice President ‘Tom Cartledge ~ Secretary ‘Susan Cook ~ Treasurer  Members at large: Diane Mueller Hele Matthews  Ray Ching  918T-22t08 HN anOusAdaaTy  ie 8 Stott et 600-De4S6KIDTy *  ogo JUN CAEN Oe pr mba SepOUP 4d 00:2  ‘puowe 07 swosj9% 248 20.4  seal 984998 309 OO1N2IN MAN JO 3815 gor waned ooo 204) noge suonsonb somsue pur  nage wiydso oy Suns994 OWI Jo psR0FT VHS POU 9G 99 I  .S9914195 SINBOH MIPHTS., 404 Kueduso>  ha AN  fala, native plants  The Sandia Height Wildflower Club members and otber visitors, extend their appreciation to you for sharing the joy of gardening.  For the parden enthusiasts: Watch for August ise ofthe Sunset Magazine,  featuring one ofthe gardens on the tour, the home of Mr. & Mrs. MeMfilan  Up Coming Event: [All Sandia Heights residents are welcome to join the members for any of our events.)  September 11% 6:00 P.M, Fal Pati Surer tthe home of Peasy Omens t 1 Henge Drie NE  you are planning to ated , please Bring a dish (salad, main course, ot desert) 10 share. Please contact Khondeh Payne at 797-4306 if interested  ‘To become» member, please sd a check forthe annual membership fee of $5 able wo the Sandia Heights Wildlower Club to Susan Cook, 1842 Tramway ‘Terrace Lp, Albuquerque, NM 87122 to cover dues for one yea. 