THE  January - February 2002  Ticket cannot be pucased atthe doe 50 pleae ester a advance with this coupon oF trough the nein your Fetruary water il  Pls bring a sppctie,o two, and share hose tecught by oder. We'l hve lt of food, nesting things vedi mc an ret ale ems  ‘The costs 13 pr person ht ncudes a beaut This year there wile somthing for everyone 10 ino gs or coffe og for Jou to ake bome. And more ‘we. In adton fine wines tour annual wine ating, his lAwware wil be avaliable for you to purchase. $year here wil be cols, tes an cas rm New Mexico Cations,  Mark your slr gow: Saturday, March 16%, ‘7pm. at Futures for Children, 9600 Tennyson (acrost ‘rom the County Lin).  The Santi eight Homeowners Association invites {eho and peta bee see of the unig coment ‘rhch we lve There ited parking 0 you may want 19 Carpoo! with your neighbor of even walk othe event  WINE AND COFFEE TASTING RESERVATION:  stort, March 16%, 57pm. ot Poteet for Crea, 0 Tenayos (atrut rm he Coty Lin return by March I, please  Wine Cotte Tang 'A Community Service Commitee 2, Sao Rafael, NE buguerge, NM 87122  ‘A Bi Money Pain  elit  ARCHITECTURAL  CONTROL COMMITTEE For the Committee By John M. Coffey, Chair  Since the last insu ofthe Grit the Architectual Control Committee (ACC) received 1S new project for review. Twelve of the projects, consisting of tree reoofing, tree landscaping. one home addition and one patio cover, wer approved. The emining hee projet consisting of one landscaping, one sce pt doe pt italiion remind “The ACC continues to funtion under its carter and invites questions or comments fora the members. Pease convey your comments or question Lis atthe SHA office at 797- 7793 oc via mal to: SHHAACC@a0] coma  Albuquerque Baroque Players’ next appeence i with pst ais  Michael McCraw,* Baroque bassoonist and duiciaa player  February 25, 2002 at 7:30 pm At Kelle Hall, UNM Fine Arts Building  ropa composers ince: Fontan Bens, recall, Cc, Telemann, ad Vira Dy Paik wil per pita wor by Soraceand W.F Bach Tiekt at Popejoy Hall ice office anda the. ‘Aa, Seniors [880] 57.00, ‘Calege age and younger S00, ‘Me McC isan Pear of Baroque Bassoon a ‘naa Univer. mabe of Tent bse Tat teroque Orchesrs fr 1 yur nd hu made 130 De  ee  The Git  5  Parks, New Development, and Government Relations  Committee (Chairman: George Connor  Goals and Objective 2001-2002  ‘+ Sopport new development within near SHILA if residents believe development is appropriate and in accordance with the SHIA master pian  + Vigorously oppose new development when believed by majority of residents to be inappropriate and whes not concert with SHHA master plan  ‘+ Continoe to tack and oversee design sand fture constrction of new park on ‘Cedar Hil Road.  ‘Upgrade and get adonal shade for Little Cloed Park.  ‘Continue to track and report on local Governmental atvities thet may impact SHHA,  ‘¢ Work closely with other SHIA committees wher items overlay (e.g. trails, weed trimming, et.)  ‘© Investigate trail use in SHILA and  pursue adstional legal neighbor forest  acoess if majority of residents’ desire.  Special Assignment - Move  enforcement of Qual Ridge  ‘rom developer  Page 3  Tay Raa x ‘oF Covenant Support 7 Committee DOSY erreek Serer Comme chi  ‘ , ‘TREES AND VIEWS  ‘As Sandia Heights approaches 33 years of develop- ‘ment, many trees have teached heights which partially block neighbor’ views of the city and mountains. Due to the cost of trimming, the majority of property owners Jet these trees contine to grow uncontrolled and we are ‘seeing many more complaints and neighbor “feuds” as a result  "The Covenants for most units deal with plantings of ‘ees that form 2 view screen, but do not prevent most single tall tees that become view blockers. Thus we property owners need to be responsible to our neighbors ‘when we plant. One simple guideline is 0 sclect ees that will not exceed the 26-foot residence height lit {or Beralilo County.  ‘A valuable reference regarding tees can be found in appendix D of the SHHA 2001 Directory, and will be included in the SHHA 2002 Directory. An additional reference is the “eneray works” suffer that was in our ‘January 2002 PNM Balls. This stuffer identifies specific ‘wees within the Tall, Medium and Small categories ‘The planting of those trees with the Tal category, which includes Ponderosa Pine, Cottonwood, Mulberry, Syea- more, Willow, Ash, Poplar, Elm, Locust and Spruce Fir is strongly discouraged within Sandia Heights because ‘of their potential to block views. Other sources of infor- ‘mation regarding tres types and height are the PNM twee deparment (241-3405) and all reputable nursery atl.  For new construction and remodeling projects, the “Architectural Control Committee reviews all associated landscape plans. Quite afew recently submitted plans ‘have required revision, deleting tll trees prior to ap proval  ‘He considerate of your neighbor's views and limit the planting of trees to only those that are within the ‘Medium and Small categories as identified in the noted PNM Senergy works” stuffer  eee Os Se Os  The Finance Committee By: Rick Nelson, Treasrer ‘Report December 2001 the forth month of out  ‘et ar uae ‘Cash and in Banks Incheating s1o1792¢ neo Sais ‘in Petty Cash 199,00 Total Cash and tp Banks _$53.474,29 Equipment and Furnsture $10,695.56 Pid Postage, Rem, Pc siss3 ScSaiy Dope Tamas  Liabilities (Open Space, Legal sad Operaling Reserve 540,585.68 Prepaid 2003 avering Dacioy, Get and Lie Gat 127500  ‘Architectural Cont $128.00 Advertsing 7275.00 Iter eared 95.79 Members Dues 235L83 Holiday GA $1,068.97 Uther commit expenses ‘S811 Colleton of aes 1,080.36 Insurance 4134.00 Legal 1088.23, eal other 30.00 (Oi, ese, sty, phone,  Immeret, supplies, ee. 1,602.63, Office Sta? 2447.60  ‘Total Outflows __. 13,311.90 Inflow over outflow for month $2,535.72  ‘Nat: Addon inal expense of $2.0T2Jur he Cohn stop work case vas billed for Detemer but nt receives ail ‘eouar and no vt id,  Paget  LA Bi Meaty Publication  PH THHE i i LTE ie  itt ea A pa it  i fa Hint  iil H Hea He i  ail age i  Tah ade i 4 fll  FEE AAE GH eh al ea a a” a i | Erie, ei jitiae a ene Masha a ea ae a le MU Heinle it ER ini a EOTMBRL Wadinll waist iP ie Git RETIREMENT PLANNING WORKSHOPS Pace 1 ONE  srred Plumbing,  Pre ing, & Cooling,  We Dat Moliace  265-0708  a  BIEN M INDIAN MARICET CENTER Wostignl& Contemporary  ser  $2000, for arsom at 96 Juniper Hill Rd. on 30797-7793 for more ilo  4 WINDOW  Or CLEANING. curt sac  292-6487  Pattanze ORS  > Prudential  Soatovet Rasy  (Xe) MORE ROOF LEAKS  The EXEL compan: ‘Where Ex-Elence is Essential” 244-3935 wow exelfoam com Free Estimates -BBB Gold Star Member  -30 Yrs. Experience -20 Yr. Warranty Availal  (Comcast  Kurt Koenman Mate  {CIAL REWARDS FOR INFORMATION leading sor vandalies in Sandia Heights, 81000, n 1 2000, Call the SHHA  HANK YOU TO ALL OF THE SANDIA HEIG) ASSOCIATION ADVERTISERS AND SI  ‘TS HOMEOWNERS PPORTERS!  Sandia Heights ‘Sharon McCollum  (EE Market Analysis 05) 85.8300  Church ofthe Good Shepherd, Unite Chueh of Ch TER Tennyson, NE sse-o00 Cha Seo & Mae 10308 Sinema Sony Sari ie Aug 92080  Propnaie,Opn vr ttm a ee  sepshen copeecea.on  4.0¢ per minute long distance!  24 hours 0 day -7 days a week!  kitchens « Bathrooms « Home Additions refiodelingmadeeasy <o 883-4040 Visit One of New Mexico's Largest ‘Kitchen & Bath Showrooms 2426 Washington NE @ blk. § of Menaul)  REMODELING  a REMIK  Mastors  ij Lit alate  Bis]  11910 Dei Ray NE Abuquergue, NM (08) 256-5233,  JEFF SPECK,C.GR. JADEnterprises Inc. Des ww jadeanterprit  ‘Thomas Smidt I Tax. Estate & Business Law “217 Montgemory NE ‘Nbuquergue, NM B7109  Tom Smid attomoy, wishes to thank al of is Sanda  Helgrs chert neighbor for Pir suppot an etre  108-030-2200 Fax 505-290-400  ‘A Bi-Monihly Publication Page?  The Git  BOARD DIRECTORS NEEDED ‘By: Jack Wolfe, SHHIA Vice President  W's time once again to bepinsecking candidates 10 fl forthcoming vacancies onthe Sandia Heights Homeowners’ Association's (SHHA) Board of Direciow (oar) Ths year there are sx Dieter positions tat wil teed tobe filed. The Directors are elec for a thoe-yeat term by the SHHA membership at the Annual General ‘Membership Meeting hel the frst Saturday in June ofeach year This Year's mecting willbe held on Jane 1.  ‘What quliicadons ae required to be a Director? “The most important quaications are the interest and abi (hills sd tie) to support the mission ofthe SHA. Th ‘iain is to coordinate planaing and implementation of sclecled Services and activites to promote the common fmtrens and wellre of the home and propery owner within Sandia Heights and wo asst ix Ialeaining the quihty of fe fr which the Sevclopmest was extabied Each Director functions asa Board member and aso as 3 ‘member of at last one ofthe Board's mae commtces A comple list of major commitees and their general ‘sponses s contained in the yellow pages of Ul 'SHIIA'S 2001 Diretoy of Residents  Ta  Traffic and Safety Committee rie Nutal, Chai =  Since June 2001 the Traffic and Safety Commitce continues to fous on two hey issues roadipedestian safety and neighborbood securiy, This commitice meets the last, ‘Thursday of each month, 6:00 pam at the SHIA office on  ‘The Board continues o pursue having at lest one sepreseatatne from each ofthe 12 “Districts” within Sanda eights 1's fek that such representation is necesry 10 fersure that thatthe teres concerns and te of those within cach District a represented on and recognized by (he Board.  "This year the oatd is looking for one representative ffom each ofthe Districts noted below. The  seciic "Unis" encompassed within cach ofthese Districts fas ned,  Disuict ‘Encompass Unis Sandan 0.1.23 Nort Juniper  Live Oak  Case 7 gatiaty Pinos 18,21, 23,24 28 Beer 26, 7s  Note: Se the Mapon pases 8 and 9 ofthis Grit  you reside in one of the stove noted Districts and ae interested in joining your SHHA’s BOD, 1 woald ack you to bepin thinking about developing a short resume reflecting your pertinent kills and experience that would be  ‘Watch for more articles on this subject to appear in your Grit asthe General Membership Meeting and election (Of Direcors draws close.  sed and trafic signs throughout Sandia Heights, pened deployment of a smart speed cart on major access roads  Vandals and burglaries have been on the increase and this ‘ay reflest rend bt it sabi oo son wo know fo sre  ‘s}811g POOWOAYBIEN Er  ‘SPROLY UIE osm  siequny win ‘SeUur] UOISIAIG NUN, oy  ‘A.Bi-Monthly Publication  Page  < 2 = s a Py gS = Cal x J i he Ss ‘A Bi-Monthly Publication  Page 10  Gardener's Calendar ‘By Dan Caudle  Early February  ‘© Propare vegotable/lower beds now by tiling ‘in mulches for future Spring plantings  ‘© Apply last application of winterize fertilizer to lawns, shrubs, and trees  ‘© Finish up Fall Winter clean-up chores, ‘pruning and raking. Cut pereanials to the ‘ground, shape tees and shrubs except carly bloomers such a ils, forsythia, and vwitria  + Thin and headback fruit tees up tothe end of February  ‘© Check watering frequency for this time of year. Desp soak every 10 0 21 days, ‘depending upon plans  February  ‘© Start scedlings of cool season vegetables indoors. Use quality sood starter mixes for lettuce, broccoli, brassl sprouts, kala and cabbage  ‘© Cut branches of early blooming hrubs/trees, bring indoors, and place ina vase. n two ‘wooks blooms will appear. Forsythia, deciduous magnolia, and many fruit and ‘omamental tees work well  ‘Begin to dormant ypray fruit tres with lime- sulphur and 2 second time in early March,  + Plant sweet pea soods  Allergy season begins first with one-scod jumpers and Siberian els  ‘© oat forget your Valentine this year ot can  ‘et you ina let of rouble  February  ‘Chock plants (specially coniferous types)  foe winter aphids. Outer leaves have a shiny  reside andthe ground beneath looks wet  © What i blooming in February? Winter jasmine (shrub), Crocus (bulb)  Early March ‘© Apply second application of dormant spray tw frst trees ‘+ Plant panscs now + Tomato plants become available, Repot in & larger pot and set indoors by a sunny wandon  Mid-Mareh  ‘© Fertilize cool season lawns (Kentucky bive srass and fescues) witha growth food. If ‘weeds were a problem for you lst yer, use a {ertizer that Contains a pre-emergent  ‘© Plant cool season vegetables and annuals. IF you started them inside as seeds, hardea thom ‘ff gradually to property acclimate them to the outdoors  ‘+ Prune rose bushes now upto the first weck in April Leave climbers until aftr they bloom. Do not fed yet.  ‘© Plax onion sets after the 1Sth of March.  ‘© This isa great time to install any hardseape items (flagstone, boulders, ponds, ramadas, walls, gravel, or conerete projects) in tho new ‘garden area that you planned last month,  ‘© As temperatures begi to warm, the watering froquency may nood t be increased to about To? umes a week  Late March  ‘© Plant strawbertes, rhubarb, asparagus, and ‘bramble fruits such as raspbernes.  ‘+ Many cold hardy perennials become available at local nurseries.  + Seed, reseed or sod ool season grasses (Keatucky blue grass and fescus).  What is blooming in March? Bradford pear, apricots, and purple-iaf pum (res) Forsythia roscmary (some), and flowering almond (shrubs), Pasque Bower (persnia), Hyacinth and daffodils (bulbs), Soaptragons, primrose, stocks, pansy, and viola (annuals).  Wa - weds  The Grit  A.S.A.P, Mortgage Inc.  THe VAUGHAN ‘Deon  HIS AND HERS BUSINESS HE DOES: SHE DOES:  WINDOW WASHING -UPHOLSTERY -HANDYMAN WORK 30 YRS. EXP.  RELIABLE ~ REASONABLE 286-7575  GE Financial Assurance  Club Postings CLASSIFIED ADS  Teamnaten shou sitting prope ad Free for SHA Member  WANTED Boulders, Ves, Boulders!!!? ‘Scrabble: fan married tof Preferably large ones!!!" If you need to| ‘confirmed —non-Scrabbler{ remove rocks for any reason, Please cal: looking for three people to set up Doug Flax monthly or bimonthly games. Prefer 856-3406 people who are fairly good players, ‘Thanks!!!  EXPERIENCED 13 YEAR OLD ‘WORKER Good for doing odd jobs around the house while you are away.. Watering, picking up ‘mail taking care of pets and MUCH MORE. Call $56-1483 and ask for Jordan  TRVEAROLD GIRL With YMCA Baby sitting training ene Wasa, tee] Arlt ray sing pt ce feted in staring o© finding 9 Coat Ai 8S6023  13 YEAR OLD ROY With Boy Scout Training and 10 YEAR OLD SISTER Avail fr batpting an hse stig Patrick or Calisa ‘AL 856-1283  EXPERIENCED 15 YEAR  ‘OLD BABYSITTER the home of Jan and Dick Stamps Great with kids  Spin Gr co NE Ava sch wend  uc oper Mae Catous Ver psceson Pier sian  |Garden Design”. This presentation Becky  as ne cage  ead gam ernie  [tom ict oyn poaens Volunteers Neededt!t Sona eget ae  cco teed ey of tt] Wepeedslmers hl ih  Sey ecg snuas"9 Am Wn Tango Tomes ment pe [Man 202  cots chak tr pple Hine lowe conta  Suet vidnwerChbio SHA Ofice une n mgr  Stn cat remy Tom  UprAtsoerge NM HIS tone  sisters  ‘A BiMonthly Pbliation  Page 16 The Get  THE RUSH TO NOWHERE ‘Name withheld by request  1 started out as one of those deys—too many things to do and noc enough time to do them My husband and I were having a party at cur house located ina rural pat of Tennessee, The roads are narrow and winding with beautfil ‘maples and dogwood lining the sides. Te makes for a prety deve but its hard to see the people vralking onthe roads (hee ae no sidewals). (Around here the speed init signs ae mostly ‘gored and the speed bumps just made you 50 {ater wo make up for lst time)  1 couldn't believe that with just haf an hour before guests arrived, Thad frgtien to get rushed ie, It as geting darker as I rushed down the rod t0 the store, taveling ata faster Speed than T shoul have bit Thad 0 et the oe in time forthe party. ASI rounded a curve that Ive trvcted hundred times before, something appeared infront of me on the road. I hardy had time to get my foot on the brake wher Tit the objets. I remember my feling a stopped the cao see what happened. Tew that hose things Tit were people but your mind can male you believe they were deer, or trash tht fll out ‘of truck. AST loked in the ear view mirror, 1 could immediately see the reflection fom the {wisted wreckage that looked (in my min) The a chrome chat. A few fect away Was 4 young ‘woman who was unable to walk normally but ‘wes limping towards the metal wreckage. As | rused t hep he, the most horrible image met ‘me about ten yards. from the scene---That home chair wat a sole! Even now it's stil hha for me to think of that moment of realzation—part of me wanted to get into my ‘at and leave, hoping that somehow eventing would fix aif bt Tsay to face te valy of ‘what Thad used  “Although 1 wanted to help, I was unable tomove trom that potas my feet wee frozen to the pound. As the woman struggled towards  that twisted picce of ste. sill had hopes tht this lady, like other people I've seen, just used the stroller to carry groceries, But that hope was dashed when she pulled the small lifeless form fut of the stroller (it was a two-year-old gir) ‘She looked at her child, then let out « seam ‘that sounded almost non-human, It was then that knew that 1 did the unthinkable-~tking the life ofa child.  ‘After the ambulance and police arived, taking all sorts of measurements and reports, I was charged with vehicular homicide, duet the excesive speed. After years of spending time in courtrooms, and paying lots of attorney's fees, I didnot have t0 go to prison for my decd. However, we did go bankrupt with the lawsuits and hd to sell our house but it didn’t matter sine the neighbors hardly spoke to me afer the incident. Something this tragic doesn’t leave the mind unscathed. became continually ‘depressed, and three years after the accident, my husband and I divorced. A. year after our ‘divorce, I tried to take my own life wth sleeping pills, although 1 couldn't even do that right Now I try to stay awake as long. as possible because the crit ofthe nigh, and nightmares, ‘makes me replay that horrible day over and over ‘again. Sometimes in my dreams, I actually swerve and miss the mother and child, and when awake I believe that really happened——for 2 few seconds. Then the eruclis of reality take ‘over and it becomes the survival of another day ‘The wort part of my nightmares is teeing tht ‘woman when she realizes she will never hold her child again, never celebrate her birthdays, never sce her get married and have children. ‘And when she looked up at me with that wisted ‘ace tha telegraphed the unbelievable ain tht ‘no mother should ever experience-—it is 100 ‘much to bear. I tried to blame that woman walking inthe road, or my husband who should have gone to get the ice, or those damn tees along the road. But it does no good because for ‘whatever reason Tam the blame, and now T suffer the worst possible Hell everyday of my  lie -  ‘A Bi Monthly Publiation  Page 13  The Grit  Covenant Support  Committee Frank Soper, Chair  [At the last meeting the Committee agreed that upon verifieation ofa legitimate complaint as- signed members wil directly contact the violator to resolve, in lieu of sending a form letter. Ifthe vio- lator refused to cooperate, we will initiate docu- ‘mentation per procedures.  To assure buyers’ awareness of Covenants prior to purchase, the Committee will contact the Albuquerque Board of Realtors 7 major brokers ac- tive in Sandia Heights (Coldwell Banker, Vaughn, Pargin etc.) specifically requesting their full coop- craton as a part of listing a property.  ‘To report a perceived Covenants violation ‘you must fill out a complaint form atthe SHHA Office. No anonymous complaints will be accepted for action by the Committee.  ee ee  Communications and Publications  Committee im Cook, Chair  The December 2001 Grit was the last get on the old publishing schedule Staring with this ive, We will publish the Grit every other month starting in Janu ‘ary rather than February. This will synchronize the Grit better with SHH events such asthe Annual Mecting in Jane. We welcome anew volunteer writer in this sve, Dan Caudillo, who authored the two articles on garden fing. Let us know what other topics you would like to have us cover  ‘We're also working on completing the revisions tothe Residest's Guide and geting ready 1 publish the 2002 Directory of Residents. Because ofthe change inthe Grits publishing schedule and the work on the Resi- ‘dents Guide and Directory the last couple of months ‘nave been focused on print publications. Over the next several months, we're going to be working on updating the material on the website. Please send us your com- ‘ments onthe SHIA website and what material would make it more useful for you.  rs ssometmiattoen FD oe oat aes ae peer joshi = i282 coe i ie = PPE = oe — pte = 2G peoia et Sane 2 a (2a soa rats = pegeien Seen oe = polar ak Eid iPS = ei = PRR os popeizeis = De = SRR ER conven = mm mon mm caeernieme 2s sama gk at =  A Reminder Sandia Heights Security isnot  1 part of SHHA  ‘The service is not included in your SHHA dues. ‘You may have the protection of, ‘oF information about Sandia Heights Security boy calling 856-6347 or 857-8924  “UYOf 7 L6LL-L6L TY.) "994 AIMMOW [poms a4} 51 O'SS “SHOquiaN ANOd Xq popwipoadde Apwasd aq {tm Hoddns pur dyay ano< wyof osvayd s9quiow YTS we you daw NOs Jy  oun; jo SuqauiBoq an 30 Ky 0 poo ap toed w anyon SEU EDFOGTAS 24ny 9 veyiadoy 2 WOK HATED I HAS 290 gu ‘Y 2190, HHS 19e009 asaqd to sy Jojan  9p pu umd 0 Budsoy ws porssons uokuy “GioH1 pURs| Jo sop acy aud ny pe UNE 2 30 3up7204 J uoRype we 1 a PIPOW (OWSD)| sonata dryoquyy pu 25095 SToRUTOS 9  yey  ead lWold & A0y OUOAUY  Sunda Height Homeowners Asoiton 28 San Rae NE  ac ri22 Gasyrse93 S00 @ mntatomeoenen ng  hy MADE  oso rg sed roe op on nyo ay son 99 cme po fem Su 330 Intoas ssg}9H mpars aye poo amy ow one saw oweiou] mo s}o|dorwafumy Bundoy Ky eps! ‘eso napus ane ee mo jowseapesn ag oom ‘aa ope somo 2 FON ‘osu symsjoge fe guopisa HS 2 ates see ‘sumo a Ube fe RAG utzaERIN VORP 7K ‘90 ue Op 5,7] "WO AH eH YY 199 95 9 Bae Ky — wo poy an ode prog  gs pay por dr ten peyond  eo sey waz0p Jo ops V “yp w moNpHN 0 19 ‘oofoad yuna 9H epENS RIL Wl > =>u  wouspay i <a  PRESORTED STD. US, POSTAGE PAID PERMIT #375, ‘ALBUQUERQUE, NM  MS BLACK BEAR RD Ne  