THE  Sandia Heights Homeows  Association  March-April 2002  SHHA Board Candidates Wanted  The Sandia Heights Homeowners ‘Association (SHHA) has appointed ‘a Nominating Committee and the Committee is actively looking for people who want to become volved with their community by serving on the SHHA Board of Directors. Sandia Heights isa very special community and one way to ensure that it stays special is forthe people who live here to actively participate in the SHHA. We are looking to fill several postions this year and we ‘would like to have as many candidates as possible.  ‘As an SHHA Director, you would have an opportu: nity o serve on Board Committees such as Traffic. & Safety, Parks, Architectural Control, Member ship, Covenant Support, Executive, Finance, or Publications. tis through the work ofthese com mitces that the SHHA can provide the services, sion, and leadership needed to keep Sandia Heights a traly special community. If you want to make a difference in your community there is no beter way todo so than tobe an active member of the SHHA Board of Directors.  Members ofthe SHHA Board of Directors are lected for three-year terms by a plurality vote of the active members attending the annual meeting, ‘This year the Annual Meeting of Members will be held on Saturday, June 1, Non-members may at- tend the annual meeting, however only members may vote  ‘Asa Director you must attend the monthly Board Meetings,  ‘which ae held ou the second  Wednesday of each month.  Directors must also serve as a  member of one of the Board  Committees. Officers of the  Board ~ President, Vice President, Secretary, and ‘Treasurer —are elected by the Board atthe first Board Meeting following the Annual Meeting of Members.  Please contact the SHIA office at 797-7793 or by ‘email at shina@sandiahomeowners.org if you would like to serve your community inthis very important role, A member ofthe Nominating Committee will contact you. Even if you're not sure if ths is some- thing you want to do, contact the SHH office and member of the Nominating Committee will be pp tk with you und newer any qutions  Ifyou are a member and not able to seve on the SHHA Board of Directors, please make time to at- tend the Annual Meeting of Members and vote for the people you believe will best represent the homeowners in the Sandia Heights community ‘Also, don’t forget that every Sandia Heights resi- <dent can share their perspectives and knowledge  ‘withthe community by submitting letters or articles to he Gee  SHHA’S ANNUAL MEETING OF MEMBERS  am, Saturday June 1"", Downstairs at the  CHURCH OF THE GOOD SHEPARD 7834 Tennyson, NE  Ifyou need  tions, call the SHA office  Keeping Our Neighborhood More Secure  ‘Traffic and Safety Activity Reported by Glenn Kus for Ere Nunal, Trafic and ‘Safety Commitee Chair  ‘Trimming chamisa. Chamisa trimming is proceeding, although somewhat slowly, asthe ‘counry lears to operate and correct problems in some new equipment. The motivation for trimming isto reduce safety problems that arise from ‘narrowing the space for vehicles, diminished visibility, and baries that endanger pedestrians ‘and bicycle riders, We expect that over the next few months most roads wil be cleared of ‘vegetation inthe nrea 34 feet on either side ofthe road. This space is part of «typical fifteen-foot ‘County-owned boundary on ether side ofthe pavement In some cases there are special Improvements within the region normally cleared, land the county crews have managed these special ‘cases so that we have had no complaints. If any ‘residents have special concerns, please contact the ‘Traffic and Safety Committee.  ‘County cooperates with SHHA. We have ‘productive relationships with the County Sheriff's ‘office and the roads malnsenancs organization, and ‘officials ffom these organizations often attend SHHA Traffic and Safety Commitee meetings. (Special thanks to Officer Santanillaes aad Mr “Mobarak for thee intrest and time. Many of you Ihave noted “speed cart” that inform drivers of| their speed, and help to control driving habits in a ‘more friendly way than citations. However, speed surveys and the experience of pedestrians show that there are still many dangerous and inconsiderate speeders, and citations are still being issued. The cost and nulsance of cltations are ‘minor, In comparison with insurance premium Increases that often persist for several years after a minor moving violation: you may want to remind any young drivers in your family.  Sheriff can now respond faster to Sandia eights calls The Sher ofce now routinely patrols Our are, and response times as shot asa few mines may be possible Ia the pas the patrol dlisrict had included the valley region. Please call 798-7000 wo repr speeder, suspicious vices or stranger in or neighbor!  Agent bump to slow speeders. The most practical ongemg way to Slow speeds on our curvy and hilly train seems to be speed bumps. The ‘County now has an approved 18 mph design hat shoul! allow ust seek more speed burps: The  -  county polices and procedures for traffic calming ‘are on file in the office. This effort will require the involvement of residents along affected streets to ‘collet signatures. We are secking especially ‘concerned residents to become leaders for their areas so that we can launch programs for some pilot streets  > Free security packet available. The Sherif’ s Office, supported by Radio Shack and ADT, have ‘sued publications that contain helpfsl phone ‘numbers, discuss such topics a neighborhood ‘watches and discuss some commercial services and ‘equipment. particularly sefulinchsionis a 8 % X11 plastic laminated sheet with magnetic holders ‘that can give you instant data on neighboring house ‘phone numbers and other emergency numbers  > Keeping hydrants visible. The SHIA has provided financial suppor fr reflective hydrant ‘markers and paint fr the pavement to mark these important features, The vegetation wil also be ‘cleared near them. Volunteer labor to accomplish ‘these very useful tasks is coming from Jason’ Williams of Sandia Heights who is working on his Boy Scouts Eagle Project. Thanks to Jason!  > Standing measures to promote security. A reward of $2,000 is offered by the SHHA for information leading to the conviction of those ‘responsible for major acts of vandalism in Sandia Heights. Glenn Kuswa and Chris Harmon continue tw offer $5,000 for information leading tothe ‘conviction ofthe arsonist responsible for <estroying their home under constuction at 96 Juniper Hill. We have an Internet email list for distributing news on urgent security matters: ‘all or emall the office to get on the ist.  ‘Traffic and Safety Continued next page  [fie Gar Page 2  MarApt 2009  ‘Traffic and Safety - Continued  > Security enhancements. Some ides under sion include: providing vehicle identification  stickers that would identify resident vehicles; mailbox stickers bearing the security patrol and ‘herif phone numbers vdeo camera 10 Photograph license plate numbers at entrances: @ Telephone notification system that would give official way to instantly notify groups of Fesidents of rime in progress of oer hazard & ‘computer hookup that would economically allow ‘ay SHHA member to place one of more home security cameras on a network that coulé be Viewed by other onthe network fom any location ‘on the intemet. Te committe welcomes ‘comment from residents, and would particularly  ike to have th involvement andor advice of any telecommunications oF video experts who could help determine the feasibility of some of our Projects.  > One neighborhood's security experiment. Mark ‘Boslough ofthe Traffic and Safety Committee reports thatthe South San Pedeo Neighborhood ‘Association is elying more on per pressure han ‘on sign and speed mp in thei questo make their strets safer, according to the ATboquerque ‘oumal. One ofthe nighborbood association ‘members created  corificate that sys," promise oto exceed the speed limit anywhere, ands oping she can get everyone sgn it The association plan to inaugurate the "Sped Limit Divers Clb” at heir next general meeting nd is chullenging residents to take the sfe-driving pledge. We plant follow this wo sce iit works well  > Unsafe truck drivers reformed. Mark Boslough ‘umished this account: “Last week I was enjoying ‘jog up Tramway Lane, when I beard a large vehicle approaching fom around a blind curve. 1 got out ofthe road as large delivery track roared past at more than twice the speed limit. motioned fo the driver to “slow dovin!” He waved back and ‘continued on his way a the sae pace. Has that ‘happened to you before? Judging from the number ‘of complaints our committee has gotten fom Sandia Heights homeowners, it probably has. ‘Many drivers are under pressure to make deadlines ‘or maximize their number of deliveries. Some are simply ignorant ofthe fact that most of our roads ‘have 15 mph speed limits. But those re not valid excuses and their employers do not want them speeding and endangering our resident.”  Mack called several ofthe companies whose Yehicies often dive trough our seighborhoods. Without exception, ey want to ear fom us when their employees volt ou speed limits. A convenient list of phone umber end phone menu shortcuts for some ofthe companies tha frequent ‘ur roads is available Below. The numbers J not inply that a particular frm i violator. In general Mark noted thatthe companies need ata misimam the ime ofthe incident to reconstruct who the driver i, but its beer ye to note any ientiying ‘numbers on the truck. To hank those divers Who respect ou safety, Mark also suagess rewarding, ‘courteous divers by complimenting them, ot by contacting their compass We also encourage yout note inckens with the SHIA office so that ‘we an beter tack the problem and consider sending formal correspondence if ny companies sre encooperave  Who to call:  FFedeeal Express 800-463-3339 shorteut: * UPS 800-742-5877 shortcut: 0 ‘APS (school buses) 505-880-3989 USPosial Service 505-346-1799,  ATEX Gas 505-897-7958 Schwan's Foods 505-821-4433  Peoples Flowers 505-884-1600  Z  fiteGat  Pron  Tarkan ‘What I Will Miss By Rober C. Gainer  For the last two years. Lh ave had the pleasure of playing the role of Park Attendant at Elena Gallegos and Boca Negra Canyon. My  x 1o play that role ended on January ‘25 2002, Ihave become aware that there are ‘many things Iwill miss as I move on 1 other roles,  1 will mise secing the moon set I dive ‘© Boce Negra Canyon i the morning  Tl miss seeing the sun rise over the Sandias as 1 open the Boca Negra gates.  1 will is the roadrunners making sounds outsie the booth to get my atetion.  {will mis seing the male roaéraer show ofThis catch before going tothe nest.  | will mss seeing the chicks flap thc wings, sound off nd dace fo food fom mom.  1 wil miss the squire ning and squabbling ouside and inside the Booth.  Twill mis the squire that climbed my {eg onto my lap looking for 3 tidbt to eat  {will miss anor gull tha never Teamed tha the bet food was nt on the for.  1 will miss abi dubbed “litle bie 11s very smal and chirps and bounces  1 wil mis seeing the wary coyote ea his intrequent trips tothe wateriole  Twill miss seeing te timid comootis ‘un and then stand motionless as I pass by.  1 wll miss sein the abundant lipedes cravling everywhere during thet  1 ill mis secing the rateanakes ard the park visitors reactions fo them.  1 wil mis getting to see the plans ange their tre match be seasons  Twill mi geting to form people fom allover the world abou the Perogyphs-  will mis giving Interpretive Tals and ‘ours to people ofall ages.  will mis responding tothe questions ‘of curious children who ae eager to lear,  wil mis seing the sunset and the Tight slowly tur to dark in Boca Negra Canyon.  T will miss sing the moon rise over the ‘Sanding a return home in the evening  wil mis seeing the iy slowly bathed in light as I open the Foothill ates.  1 will miss taking with the people who are out for thei early morning walks.  | will miss the encounters with dogs on leashes ~ some ttielly, some not.  | will miss feeling the happiness when separated dogs and owners are reunited  | will mis seeing deer munching on foliage or jst standing sill and watching me.  | will mis greting plants on their arrival and bidding them goodbye with the  |Lwill miss informing people of the hiking and biking options at Elena Gallegos  Twill miss getting to mend the infrequent scrapes, Bruises and cuts that occur  1 will miss seeing the play of clouds and light on the Sandias from Elena Gallegos.  | will mis experiencing extreme ‘weather changes ina short period of ime  | will miss getting to redirect the path of people who are not sure where they a,  1 will miss talking with visitors to the ity who are glad they found Elena Gallegos  1 will miss talking with shor term, residents who are glad they found Elena  1 wil miss aking with longterm residents who are glad they found Elena Caliegos.  1 wll miss sexing the play of ight and dark on the Sands the slowly st  [ill mist bearing the eopte hooting and howling daring the ery evening boar  Twill miss scng the city gts come com and twinkle as darkness engulf the iy.  T wll mins cng the moon se and ost {sof light on Ekena Gallegos andthe c:  {will miss much more than Ihave ‘written here, It wil all remain with me as happy memories.  Rega  Paee Marche Apet 3009) WINDOW CLEANING  ZB cont sane (292-6487  HANDIWORK: hoe  Referral Service » cd  7 Fre-Qulifed Coomactors & Handynen @ Prudential  eduled For You + No Fee To You For Ou Service Soutest ely Free Estimates & Guaranteed Work bt  Call 275-2758  Sandi Heght Sint 1957 wa Hondo  Root Replace ‘The EX-EL Company, Inc. “Where Ex-Elence is Essential’ 244-3935 wow exlfoam com  -Free Estimates -BBB Gold Star Member -30 Vrs. Experience -20 Yr, Warranty Available  Pres (Comcast  From the Incion At to You TYodtlonal & Contemporary tt Kornman ew, Pottery one Foon Rugs” ‘1 Webel Pace ‘Phiore eur, 25 ogpay  t24 Tet 605761 625 a 80526008 "arses 6 7618273  SPECIAL REWARDS FOR INFORMATION leading to convictions: #2000 « ‘asl i Sandia Heights, $1000 and $3000 additional for arson at 96 Juniper Hill Rd. on Jan 14, 9000, Call the SHEA office  36797-7793 for more information  FREE Market Analysis inne (508) 8.8330  20 heney Nh ae Senne aL PW IT?  Church ofthe Good Shepherd, ‘United Chueh of Christ 7834 Tennyson, NE 50008 Suny Sees 820 8 10208 ‘see Sani Sai eA) 208 Progressive, Open fant cht Raa, Db Sy se Baecting visvercoeses ese pen cope  4.50 por miarte lou distance!  24 hours a day «7 days a week!  GicbolPhonadoencom  Kitchens « Bathrooms « Home Additions  {eniodelingmadeeasy <0: 883-4040 Visit One of New Mexico's Largest ‘itchen & Bath Showrooms 2426 Washington NE @ bits. 5. of Mer  REMODELING  Lindo Gaal  ‘Sandia Presbyterian Church 1704 Pate el NaN 866.540  Common stor Wore!  "(605) 856-5299 JEFF SPECK,C.G.R.  Thomas Smiat Tax, Estate & Business Law '<217 Montgomery NE. ‘Abuquerque, NM 87109  Tom Smit ttomey,wishos o thank al of i Sancta  Hotgns chon roighbors for to suppon ana ters ‘vor tho past 25 years  Fax 505-90.4100, The Finance Committee ‘By: Risk Nelaon, Teaser Report for February 2002, the sixth month of out Budget year  IncD In Pety Cash  ‘Total Cash and In Banks  Other Assets  Equipment and Furniture ‘Membership Inventory Prepaid Postage, Rent, Ete ‘Security Deposits  ‘Total Other Assets  Total Assets  ‘Open Space, Legal and  ‘Operating Reserve $4528.01 Prepaid 2002 advertising Directory, Grit, Litle Grit Reduced by published issues 13,015.83, otal Lit 84 abt Inflows and Outflows month of February 2002 Inflows Architectural Controt $320.00 ‘Advertising 500.00 Innere eared 82.08 ‘Members Dues 759183 Wine/Coffee event 1,040.00  ‘Total flows 9915340  ‘Outfiows Communications $1382.80 ‘Other commitee expenses 37328 Collection of dacs 1.05036 Legal, 201738  Ofc, lease, wility, hone, Ineret, supplies, et. 1,600.22 Office Suit 3.85832 ‘Total Outfows $10,282.53  ‘Quiftow over inflow for month —_(- $ 748.52)  ‘Note: another $1,912.08 was spent on Prepaid ‘costs and Inventory from operating reserves  oa The May meeting ofthe Sandia Heights ‘Wildflower Cub is scheduled for Wednesday May 15th, at 7:30 p.m. atthe home of Milton and Diane Mueller, 1216 Rockrose Road, Frank Soper will, give a brief presentation about Sandia Height covenants and answer related questions. This is also the annual brainstorming session for ideas for the activities ofthe club for next year  ‘Any Sandia Heights Resident is welcome tottend any of the bi-monthly meetings. To ‘become a member, please send a cheek for $5 payable to the Sandia Heights Wildflower Club to Susan Cook, 1842 Tramway Terrace Loop, ‘Albuquerque, NM 87122 to cover dues for one year.  Sandia Heights Computer Club  We had our frst meeting March 7 with 9 ‘members attending. Everyone was interested in using PCs tobe more productive. Topics of discussion for future meetings included: Firewalls, Viruses, Email fiers, downloading files, backups, filesystem organization, Word, Excel, Access, Powerpoint, Publisher, Outlook, Calendaring tools, Windows, and Quicken. The topic of discussion for the next meeting is creating your ‘own website  You can find more information about Joining the Sandia Heights Compater Club (SHCC) at its website: Inips/mywebpages.comeast net's! ‘orem Jim Cook at shee@comecast.net  [ibe Gat Page  ‘arch Apet 2000) Communications & Publications  Committee sim Cook, Chair  Congratulations Grit readers! You've submited so many Articles and ers that we ve bad Yo expand the Grito forth ase ‘Dan Coil has continuod his Gardeners Calendar series with ips for Ari and May and series anal on theme gardens for thos fy ‘rho want try Your hand st ereting new paren Toe yout home ths yu. © "Robert Gainer submited pom tha reminds sof al of the wonderful things nour area tha we ‘ten ake fr granted ‘© "There were many lees submited on the Sadia Pocblo ina 0 we allocated wins ypc in der to prin al ofthe © “Tanks al of you who submited materi or qublicaton Is this ype of active community Tavolverent tha helps publish a beter ommanity news ® By now all SHHA members should have received ther 2002 Resident's Dirty. I you're Sn SHA member and did ot receive» decor. ‘ease noi the SHA office. Also, please check our iting and let ws now if you woul ike azything changed for nex ear. "youre a Sandia Heights resident whois ot Yetan SHIA member and woul ik a dietoy, Sou can purchase one a the SHHA office or join the SIITIA and receive a directory a no charge. Foc those who would like ational diectries, theyre avaiable for purchase the SHILA office  Wire Fences and Covenants Frank Soper, Chai Covenant Support Committee  What is a wir fence? The legal advisors to the ‘Sandia Heights Homeowners Assocation (SHIIA) bave ‘povided their opinions that chain link fencing isa wire fence, as is chicken wire and tarbed wire  “The Declaration of Restrictions (Covenant) for all 36 Sandia Heights units prohibits the use of wire fencing, which includes chan link fences. However, the ‘Covenant Support Committee (CSC) regularly receives ‘complaints about new installations of chain link fences Since thee fences do violate the restrictive covenants, the CSC must ake action when complaints ae received,  1f your property hasan existing chain link {enced area you can avoid complaints by removing the fence. You may be abe to avoid complaints by enclosing the fence with an approved material such as ‘wood or stucco-coated concrete block with an approved color. Please note tht any action other than removal of ‘chain link fence requires prior approval of the ‘Architectral Control Commitee (ACC), per the ‘coven,  The CSC is presently involved in three chain link violations. Please donot install new chai link fencing.  For those residents who want o installa ‘temporary enclosure to protect a newly planted area from our eters, please advise the SHHA Office of your plan in order to avoid aay potential covenant violations ‘or neighbor complaints,  DO NOT FORGET MARK YOUR CALENDAR FOR SHHA’S ANNUAL MEETING OF MEMBERS  at 10 am, Saturday June 1 Downstairs at the CHURCH OF THE GOOD SHEPARD  7834 Tennyson, NE Ifyou need directions, call the SHEA office  {fhe Gar  Pages WiaraheApa 2003)  Architectural Control  % Committes  Jf? John M. Coffey, Chair  Its Spring! This is the onset of the season ‘of improving the exterior of our homes by ‘estuccoing, addtions, and landscaping,  Please remember that covenants require that before any ofthe above work can be started, application to and approval by the ACC are necessary. There is no charge for most of the above applications,  ease have your builder, stuccoer and landscaper review your unt's covenants before finalizing plans for submission of appication. ‘Acceptable stucco colors are on the SHHA website, ‘and a color by another manufacturer whichis within the color boundaries is almost always acceptable  ‘The ACC takes a positive atitude about ‘maintenance and improvement of homes in Sandia Heights, and looks forward to working with all ‘Sandia Heights home and property owners.  epee anes  SHHA's 9" Annual Wine Tasting Fenian Murphy, Chair Community Service/Membership Commitee  The SHHA's Annual Wine Tasting, held on March 16°, ‘was very successful," accorcing to Ms. ‘std Lugowsk, Chaiperson for this event that \was put on by SHHA’s Commurity Service and Membership Commitee. Dick Bracket, her co- Chair, sid twas very wel attended. People seemed to be very pleased with the choice of wines by Nafonal Disributors and the coffees ‘and chias provided by New Mexico Coffee.  Ms. Lugowski wished to publicly thank the community volunteers and the SHHA'S Office personnel for ther excellent help and to give “eudos' to those businesses and individuals who <onated items forthe raffe. These included: ‘Sandia Casino Butt tickets), County Line Restaurant (2 for 1 Tekst), Naonal Distributors (wine), and Ruth Frazier (Acoma bow! and flowers)  ‘The Linda Vie Tio, dressed in green to honor St, Patrick's Day, provided lvely music.  “The Community Service and Membership Commitee will meet next week to begin planning ‘ext year's event  President’s Message ‘Don Ami, Present SHA  ‘Your Board of Directors has been extremely busy for the past ten months. And this particular Board in its curent ‘composition has only two more months to serve before the Annual Meeting at which you will be selecting several new Directors to fill vacancies that willbe left open by departing individuals. strongly encourage each of you to attend this meting and to participate inthe voting for new Directors. Rememier, this board ‘represents you on multiple decisions that are required of them each month.  ‘Our last Board Meeting on March 13, 2002 was a lively ‘ne. In addition to the normal agende we had an open <iscussion on the Pueblo of Sandia Setlement issue. “Many of our residents who attended tis meeting were not happy orth the Resolution thatthe Bosrd of Directors approved oa this issue. Neither were they pleased with the article tha was published inthe Pebroary 2002 issue ofthe Little Grit. The article I'm referring ois the one entitled “Resoltion Conceming the Pueblo of Sandia Boundary Dispute". want to thank all those members who attended this meeting and I want ‘tw assure you tht your message was received loud and ‘lear. hope that once this one issue is setled, your interest in and monitoring ofthe Board's actions will ot ceise and that effective communication between the ‘Board and its membership will continue to grow.  | want to reassure you that al ofthe current Board Members are trying to do what they felis best for ‘Sandia Heights and to protect the rights, privileges, and property ofthe residents of Sandia Heights  [feGar  Tae  gan VNYV Letters to the Editor  ‘The Grit Publishes ltrs from resents and ouside readers om twples of concer or intrest to the comma Ou pole sto ‘publish as many letters as possible within space conraints 80 that al perspectives are presented.  Regarding the Sandia Pueblo Land Claim ‘Gom: Pete & J Foster, Sandia Heights Residents  Living in Sania Heights North since 1977 and being Sandia Heights Homeowners Associaton members since tat ‘ime, and Sandia Mountain Coalien members since the early "80's we are now discouraged to have ou acighbors undermining our cause without fll nowiedge ofthe ‘ckground information  In 1748 Lt. Gen, Busamante made a “repulse” Posblo Gane (approximately 17,460 acres) establishing the Pucblo of Sandia. The specific measurement for the eaten boanday in 1748 Was ove league (26 males) om the enter of the pueblo, “which put tat the fodils ofthe Sandia Mounting, end ot the ‘rest. We attach led Note and Maps from R-E. Clement's approved and patented 1859/1860 Sandia Publo Survey. You ‘an ce he drew the border atthe foothills, di pot we alone, and placed are ross engraved rock atthe northeast snd southeast oundaics We ince professional sighting photographs” of ‘he boulders at 6 600s fot elevation, not he 1.000 foot ‘eveton of Sandia Crs. Tha Graet was renurveyed by Bohannoa/Huston August 1988 and certified tobe arcuate within 933 fee  ‘Since the 1800s thre diferent federal commissions Ihave addressed America Indian claims. The ext boundary of ‘the Pueblo of Sandia was not questions wall 1969 ~ over two ‘centuries afer the orginal Spanish Grant was made.  ‘Bingaman’s draft legislation stats that the Pueblo would have juriditon over crimes committed in the undefined Trust ara, The New Mexico Deparment of Game and Fisk allows bow hunting inthe National Forest Sanda Wilderness 150 yards fom our homes. Would you want Pueblo rule, over ‘hich you have no contol, o gover the land 150 yards from ‘where you and your children sleep when you had xginaly ‘purchased your home ajacet to National Forest Wilderness ‘rea? You "Lite Grit" Eltoes most live safely in the ares neue ‘Tramway Blvd.  Since itis already to ate for a March Grit ebutal, ‘wy don't you in faimes, make the Homeowner's Association ‘Print space available to Anita Miller, Sania Mountain Coalition ‘Co-chair (or Senator DomeniciCongresewoman Wilson) before May?  Editor's Noe: Letter had 3 atached pages which «ould not be reproduced dew space limaatlons. These ages ‘ze avalable nthe SHIA office for viewing. The Grit fencowages letters and articles from Sanda Heights residents ‘and wil also publish eters and ariles by ode authors on topics that ae timely and relevant tr readers. Sabmsions ‘shouldbe sen tothe SHIA office  The Sandia Pueblo Land Claim rom: Jack Walker, Past Co-Chaiz Sandia Moussin Coalition  {and aaumber of my neighbors were dismayed atthe Sandia Heights Homeowners Association (SHHA) Board's ‘ent resolution regarding the proposed setlement "sgrecment”™ ‘ofthe Pueblo lad claim. The fat tat he board woul adopt 4nd publish 2 “ot opposed” postion to the mediated sctement “agreement” crated bythe Pacblo ad the Washington (WAS) ‘breauras, tht went totally agains the postion he their ‘members and constituents in the north subdivision have taken is ‘most disturbing. This violates ther charter as witten by their ‘own hla 0 sap thet members od protect thet property ‘values fie listening tothe discussion at their Marc 1508 ‘meeting is ler that hs resolution was posed with only ‘superficial Knowle or understanding ofthe issues For ample he wer ot ware of ul por  ‘All he expert esearch by historians and wcheolopss who  fil believe the claim is without merit.  2. The opinion of two preeminent attorneys specializing in Indian aw who pint ou the egreemen i dled with “calculated ambiguities" which would almost certainly ead to further lawsuits by the Pueblo.  3. The position ofthe City of Abaquerg (ABQ) and ‘Beralilo County (BC) who realize that these smbiguiies leave interpretation open and produce a high roby of {further lawsuits that could threaten the los of acces the ‘mountain bythe publi.  44. The postin of our Washington Congressional delegation “sho realize tha the ambiguous aprecment cou eaten ‘he Sandia Wilderness wea and aes dangerous precedent aoss the nation [Is iresting and stung tat not one ofthe board has  bothered to comet, and be educated by, the dovens of metings  ofthe Sandia Mousain Coalition (SMC) (made up mostly of| their consents) whic, with ou elected represemtives from  ‘ABQ, BC, aad WAS, ave discussed and struggled with these  ‘issues in great deal for years. Perhaps beter understanding of  the iaes would have helped the board derstand that the  agreement would have NOT provided the PERMANENCE  ‘ered by tet content rom the north and may have  ‘opened the door 1 total loss of aces to the mountain. tis 20%  ‘a has always been the objective of our laced representatives,  Su he SMC, to reach an agreement wit the Pasblo that would  ‘role their cultural and religiou ight as wel asthe igh of  the homeowners and public and, of primary  slimizate the threat of farther law sits bythe Poco. All ofthis  Jeads me to these questions wo the Board:  (2) Why did you rash to publish this eosin with lite research and owed?  '@) Why did you desert your constituent inthe oth without asking them fr tei inp?  (@) Why id you gather your infrmation hough sever meetings with the Pueblo to get hit “pin” bat ot once 4d you mest with our consents, eg the SMC?  (Why id you, inthe “Lite Get fer othe SMC sa poup” again the aprecment, aot acknowledging tha this  ‘Cominued nex.page “Walker”  ffheGar  Page 10  March Ape 3009]  Welker” Continued from reviews pase,  “poup' is made up of your bomeowner constituents who you se deserting?  (6) Do youtbelieve your elected represemtivs fom the cty county, and US Congres are incompetent or imesporible because they believe that someting other han he  totally resolving this tou with fale”? (Do youre your endoremest of en outdated that wil ot be supped by your constitvents or lected oficial could actualy slow dow te progress being made by the responsible partes? (@) Fiaaly, wha god sa homeowners sociation if (he Boud woo” suppor is members? tis my bope that cera Board merers donot have a iddes ‘agenda bere One has o woe. Inidntly the comments re ‘mine only and donot represent, ffl, the SMC bute ‘shared by mary of my nego with whom have ecetly spoken. NE A NN ee BA  Sandia Settlement Agreement From: Andrew Gans, MPH, Sania Heights Resient  As anew homeowner in Senia eights North Iwas saudene bythe SHIA Board toeting on March 13%. Pople’ ‘eelings and fears lito some very unpleasant confrntsion. Theleve the Bosd made a sincere effort 1 dy the Sandia Setlement Agroment ani developed the reasonable resolution that was published in The Grit Clery they re nrect in thinking tat hs issbe must be resolved by "November, or we all ose out Obviously thee ae diverse  ‘these hard eking volutes  “The moat fective way o reach an idea stdement is forall putes ory to se be ober points of view.  “The Sandia Mountain Calon’ years of bard work sd research wll be more util f thy tone down the retri sf aninosiy ‘The Sandia Pueblo will xin rater soppor fr their eat ‘aims if they clearly tte their upp for a olton that ‘pemanetly protects our property rigs. And the SHHA Boa ‘ll get broader support by erfung an improved reslsion ha refless what we all want a peonanent agreement thts approved before the November deadline.  ‘We shoul all rnember th the Sandia Pusblo predates the Sania Hgts subdivision by hundreds of years. 1 belive they have ben very good neighbor in making he compromises tha they hee offered to date. Thope al my ‘seighbors wil werk towards a positive soluion that cas us 2  welome it this neighborhood, so we can all benefit fom this unig and tenuilpac olive ee ee ed  From the Pueblo of Sandia Stuynrt Paisano, Governor, ‘David C. Micke, Atom for Pucblo of Sandia  (One evening of March 13,2002 Governor Stuart Paisano sn Tatended the Sana Fcights Homeowners Assocation ‘Bourd Mecting at which amumber of residents sharply exticined ‘the Dourd for pasing 8 elution declring the Board does “not ‘oppose the setlemeat worked out between the Pueblo, the fk goverment, al the Tram Company. While ferences ‘of opinion on issies are understandable, the meting was oabe forthe strong her of, al mistatements by, selene pone I witty ates some of  ‘Pueblo claims o righ, te, and interest in and tthe ‘ubvsins," we "pemuncaly extinguished” The Agreement ses further to provide that “Je Pueblo shall hve no civil or  ‘herein, ad the laws of te Pueblo shal ot apply the suivisions”  Astoibe granted bythe Pueblo, they are imevocableright-of-vay in perpetuity” which are granted to ‘Bernall Coury forte rods tothe Forest Service fo il, andthe subdivision for wlies  {he rghs and interests recognized and protected bythe setlemen, “all Pueblo cams fo ight, ie wd interest of any ‘ind in and to lands within the Area are pemaneatly ‘extngisbed." “The boundaries ofthe Sandia Mournin ‘Wiudemes and the Cibola National Forest re exptly rocogaiod and maitined as is Fores Service administration, Inston, the Pueblo has a right to else any put of he As, ‘ven tempor, of exclude persons or governmental es fem the Ares”  ;  ‘Assement und found i to be “full of cleulated ambiguities” ‘ha nid ado fue nigation. This lam, which has never been substantiated, much ss debated, has been &  Contd on net pase “Puchlo™  feGar Page Th  March-April 2009  Pate”  recurrent theme of stlement opponents. Only recenty was he Pasblo provided a copy ofa lea from one of thee HO “experts” That ene is othing moe than a series of conclusion, repeating pst Coalition statements critical ofthe ‘lemert The other naan lew expert remain ae) mos ‘an as apparently ot pat iso er opinions in writing. tis ‘ic wo respond such argument, bu the Push would ‘welcome open and honest debate on the “ambiguities sue ‘Saffice it sy, we believe the Agreement i very specific ant {ensures a permanent resolution —a result that ata of te naan In experts tom dee federal depareness, the Frag (Company. and he Pac, ll worke! very hard being shout ¢ to, ll wo  ‘The Hands Repo is authoritative and uncostosied) ‘Mach hs been mae by setiement opponents of Fepors by De ‘Stan Hers, historian who was hired by the Forest Service and ‘he Coalition to oppose the Pobl's claim. Not surprisingly, the Pacbl’shiirians anthropologists, inguin expen surveyor ‘ll sroagly disagree with Br. Herds. Perhaps more Sipufcanily, the Pehlo® cai har eceived upp fom a host ‘ofeherexprs who have ot heen engage! by ay party tote Aspute. Conversely, we ae not war of any “independent” expert who agrees with De Hordes’ arguments, and even one of De Hordes’ primary researchers, now a history profesor, strongly disagrees with his conchsions In adaiton is somehow ovetiooked by Hordes’ adherents thatthe first historian fare by the Forest Service to work on this cate dvecty refused ‘De Hordes’ peimary argumcot~ tht Sandia was only ete to fp as of four wjare leagues. dese the plain language inde ‘Preble’ grant document, and Congress confirmation of that ‘ert ing the Pocbo's easier Pounder ate “wai ge” ‘oF Sandia Mountain  “That Nistor wrote: “The sizeof and grants made 19 ‘the Pueblo indians has ben a subject of extensive dscssion| ‘over the years. Fit and fremont there has never been general law txing the area of «puch at four square leagues ort any ‘ter Fgh and unequivocal magaitde 'S The so-cllod Lesy-Babhis Opinion was apalitialy ‘mata oh. jdument hat vera apr nist DDspurient opinion rising te Puchlo'sclaim> The recent Inserior Deparment Opinion by former Solicitor Let and Secretary Bubbiton the Pucbl's claim came in response 1 2 feral cour decision that srk down» highly controversial 1985 opinion ejecting the Puclo's cis (known as the “Tae Opinion”) and ordered Inert reconsider the cai. pplying larpropeate legal prsciies_Setlementopponets whe view Be ‘Tar Onion ss cbective and zthorsative womenow overeat the fact that Solicitor Tar was onthe verge of ising a opinion  «supporting the Pocblo's claim in Api of 1986, when is daft ‘opmion was leaked othe pes and fears fanned abouts ‘potential consequences. The esting political oar caused Tar to do an about fee shortly before he let fc, in <iropant ofthe recommendations of ethers in the Department.  ‘The County wn Coulton, after withing from settlement dscusions, appealed te federal court's eision ‘throwing ou the Tar Opinion bt heir appeal was eanimousty dissed by a hoe dye Court of Appeals pane (all hve jes were Rengan or Bush appoints). On ‘November 2, 2000, four day fe the Court of  decision, te sttomey fr the County and Coalition wrote to the Scerery Bobbitt making the following ruse. "Pura to your athores to comet surveys. the County of Berio, ‘New Mexico, andthe Sandi Mouszain Coalition herewith rogues that you underiake a resurvey o otherwise comet the ‘rroneous nuvey ofthe eastem boundtry ofthe Puclo of Sandia”  Tn acondance wit his recs andthe federal cous remand onder, the Interior Department proceeded to ropes the ‘Mims record athe case for 30 ays mca a party ‘wished to make ailioal submissions nd on Janay 2 ee eo Cars Anti Ser  ‘These ar jt some of the oars and iisepresenatins we ‘ard exprewod tthe March 15" meeting. We also understand ‘hat residents suited etter to the Board and requested that these leters be published in your community newsletter, The (Grit We respect egies that or leer presenting information correcting some ofthe missaemens tae atthe ‘Decting be published in The Grit so hat Sandia High ‘Ronde are prewued wth all ofthe informatio need 19 ake med deesons  ‘We ae pleased that the SHELA Board of Directors has the ‘angry 10 yeset both sides ofthis ise even though your posto is ctviouly unpopular with some Sandia Hleigs residents. The Polo's pate fasration continues to be that ‘any opposing the etlement re dag s base ot aeenucen, and fears not fac. The ‘Comments a thereon SIITA Board Meeting cell ‘enforced this. While public debate can play aweful oe inthe ‘tucson press, such debate should Be bones. infomed, ad  ‘Once apn, we impote all persons interested in oe afeted ‘by our claim o the pending seclement to eam and deen | ‘Se facts for Oamacven. We welcome the opportunity have & productive and messingfl dialogue with any member of the ‘Sonia Height community shout ths snc, ot provide yore who request with futer information andlor ements un lting ay of the docamers rterenced of rid ‘pon by us inthis eter. Pethaps a foram, with a neutral moderator, could be arranged inthe near etre so that questions ‘24 opinions concerning the claim ad the settlement could be sired ad responded toby persons knowledgeable about these Ealtors Nowe. The lester had addtional documents enloned sehich could ot be reproduced de to space ination Thee documents are avaable inthe SHILA ofc Jor viewing  fez Fee  March-April 2009  Vectors ae insects or animals that transmit diseases to humans. The prevention and control of ‘veetoe-bom diseases is vial tothe public health protcction of residents. Plague, hantavirus and ‘encephalitis are the tree primary vector-bom diseases of concern to residents in Bernalillo. County. The City of Albuquerque and Bernalillo County provide funding forthe joint Vector Control Program managed by the City of Albuquerque nviconmental Health Department.  "Because we live in an area that is susceptible to plague, hantavias and encephalitis it {is important to know what animals and insect these diseases are transmitted by and what prevention actions we ean take.  ‘The following is a paral ls of insects or ‘nimals that transmit these dscases to humans:  vevvvvvyyy z :  Contacts: City of Albuquerque Environmental Health  3, Environmental Services, 505-768-2600  City of Albuquerque WebPages: _worwcba gov/envservicevesmosguitoes htm and www cabg govienvservicesfesplague html  PLA  ‘Plague is transmitted to humans by infected animals nd insets. AS hana migration ito new oising development in thefts ofthe Sandia “Mocntin ann he Est Mowntin aca of eral Count reese, homan expose to Plaguerinfectd anima ofa inrese. I addition, exposure can increase during recreational Actives sucha camping biking nd sing.  agus canbe corral ioe is bien by infested rodent eas andor handles plageinfested tase of sicko end animals Dometic cts an tls contact plague and ansni ito human handlers of caregivers. In addition to cats, dogs may any pagueinfcted ess ino the home  ‘Symptoms of plaque include high fever, headache and chil Pin andor sweling in he Jymph node ofthe groin, armpit or neck area may teother omens.  Prior to the inception of the plague suncilince programs in BerilloCouny in 1978 the Coty red aber one within the U5, ince of human plague, Survelnce efor ‘have resulted in only three human plague cases in the last ive year, significant improvement.  Health Issues continued on next page  (TheGae  Page 13  Tare ApAT OO Health Issues (continued)  HANTAVIRUS  Deer mice and other field rodents transmit hhantavirus in thee urine, saliva and droppings. ‘Symptoms of hantavius include fever and muscle ‘ches followed by coughing and diffculy in ‘breathing. Symptoms may also include headache, ‘nausea, vomiting, dara, and abdominal pain. Calla physician for medical advice if symptoms ‘cur ater contact with rodents oftheir droppings.  ‘While there have been 26 reported cases of hhantavirus throughout the state during the last four years, Beralillo County has not had single case The high incidence of hantavias in other areas of [New Mexico indicates that the county may be susceptible to hantavirus, and needs to enance {ctv sursillance to prevent dhe disease from ‘becoming a problem.  ‘What is being done about Hantavirus?  > The New Mexico Deparment of Health conducts ative runvillance for hanavinss,  > The Vector Control Program develops educational messages for residents to ‘prevent exposure to hantavins  > Ashantavires affects other pats of the state, mare active surveillance must be implemented to keep Albuquerque and Beralillo County fee ofthis disease  Keep al food, water and gartage i ‘metal or thick plastic containers with secured ids  Never leave pet food and water outside  over aight. Cea spil fo0d fom cso and oor.  ‘Seal up entry points in homes to keep rodents out  ‘Avoid rodent droppings.  ‘Use spring-loaded rodent raps and EPA, egistered bait continuously to kill roalons, if rodent infestation is preseat Eliminate possible nesting sites such as  ENCEPHALITIS  Mosquitoes are not only annoying. but they also cary diseases such as St, Louis and Westem ‘Equine Encephalitis, two diseases that have been documented in Bernalillo County. Migratory birds _ae sometimes also responsible forthe spread of ‘encephalitis Adult monquitocs tht feed on infected birds and then bite humans are responsible for the spread of cacepblitis to the human population.  ‘The potential fr disease transmission Increases as the mosquito population increases. Stagnant watcrin ditches and backyard fishponds, 5 well as artificial container (eg. discarded tire, ‘ans, bottes) ae breeding sites for mosquitoes.  Symptoms of encephalitis include headache, stiff neck, confusion, nausea and/or vomiting  Larval surveillance dats show tht ‘Beralillo County has aot bad any recent cases of cacephalits. Because mosquitoes i the larval or adolescent state are confined to water, they ar less ‘mobile and more accessible for elimination than are adult mosquitoes. In 1999 145 larval sites were surveyed and sprayed each week. This increased 19 15S sites in 2000. In the years 1999 and 2000, 7,100 and 8,500 adult mosquitoes, respectively, were collected in surveillance efforts This ype of surveillance effort guides control measures 10 prevent larvae from developing into adult ‘mosquitoes and reduces the potential for mosquito- Tore disease transmission  In addition a regional task force has been formed with New Mexico, West Texas, Arizona and Juarez, Mexico to strategically implement smosauito surveillance  Avoid over watering property. Uniline mosquito-ating fish in.  ponds. Utitize weriscaping to landscape. ‘Clean pounds, brdbaths, an livestock  ‘Copies ofthis Health Issues article may be obtained atthe SHH office  Page 1  ‘March-April 2003]  Michele Marie Mumson MobiInS0S.228.8405 Rats at anal ine bw elent inet refinance  it WAUGHAN COMPANY REALTORS £0 COMIN  FREE Market Analysis tee (505 858.8028  HIS AND HERS BUSINESS HE DOES: ‘SHE DOES: |-WINDOW WASHING -UPHOLSTERY} |-HANDYMAN WORK 30 YRS. EXP, RELIABLE ~ REASONABLE 286-7575  822-9280  Feb Pigott Nw Meno Lag Ter Cae Spee  ong Tem CuO 0p, Aber NU 712 aaa  General Elect Capital Assurance Compeny  FOR  Td like to thank the Sandia Heights Community for the generous and to the sanitation and security staff. Sandia Heights Security is a division sign up for security service please call John Pickering at 856-6347  [Raveribements To ot represent an endorsoment by SHA or is ooo]  ‘THE STOFAC TEAM SELLS. Repairs & Maintenance  EliteHomes »:21:000 rn tn  NOLASTORAC 249.7718, Licensed - lured - Bonded re Eames!  ithe Beis 4 >  Ua EE GOCE AME L872  Enchantment Speech Language Are You Living Your Best Life? Pathology Services, LIC Acuna Motion a = Cotcraton* Excouagement “Honest Feedback Victoria S. Smidt MS., CCC-SLP Personal and Profesional Coach 4217 Montgomery Blod. NI Call for a half-hour sample coaching session Albuquerque, New Mexico 87100 sisson (505) 830-2220 Fax (505) 830-4400 —  ‘Sandia Environmental Designs Landscape Design & Consultations Cleanup & Hauling  a Dan Cauditlo (505) 856-6617  INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT RETIREMENT PLANNING WORKSHOPS  Gardener's Calender By Dan Canalo  aww  arly April  ‘Last week to prune your roses. It 00 late to prune fui tres.  ‘Tune-up your lawn mower and sharpen the bade.  ‘ready purchased your tomato plats? 1) Repo in larger pt and set otdoors ding the dy (i oto cold) and bring indoor each night. 2) Plant outside using a Wall-O- Water plat pester.  Last chance to plan cool season vegetables ‘Time wo plant ced potatoes ‘urmizgbrs fir arive in Albuguergs on their migration northward, so get those Feeders ready!  Mid-April  [Last average day of frost is Apil 17. Do you fet lacky to chance i?  First fering for tres and shrubs (including roses).  ‘Harter shrubs, res, nd perennials bepin to show up at local nurseries.  lant spring bubs such as canna, dablia, ‘lodiolus, and iy ‘Cottonwood trees begin to pollinate.  A good time to plant mus.  Late April  ‘Check local mani for the best selection of ross you will ll yearlong  ‘Check houseplants for eset a prune back lenay overgrowth  Late April early May iste spay pion, Ponderosa, and ug pies for pine tip maths. ‘Check loa manericn newscas oF Dew paper for exact tines  [ewes edition of Sunset Wester Garden ‘Book, page I features Sandia Heights sande!  Time to we grb control o your lawn, specially fescor and bloegran.  ‘What's blooming in Api? Purple-teat plan, redbud,peaches apples, cabapples, and hones (es); Lil, saver magnolia, spices and Japanese soowball (shrubs); Lady baaks ose and wisteria vines): Upright rosemary, ‘hry sage, creping phox, Mexican evening  rimrose candy tut, wood violet, Bowles ‘mauve wallflower, coral bells, salvia superb, ‘catming, bv fax, chocolate flower, and purple ‘tobe (perennials; Daffodils, bleeding hear, ‘and early tulips (bulbs); snapdeagon, primrose, ok, violn and pansy (annual),  Early May  “Safe from late oss”. Time to plant warm ‘season vegetables (lomaines, peppers, 2B plas, melons, squashes, and cucumbers) and ‘annuals (dahlia, lobelia, nastrtium, verbena, ‘cosmos, zinnia, coleus, marigod, aster and alyssa).  Desthatch warm season inns.  Mid-May  ‘May 12 is Mothers Day. Dont forget the one ‘who brought you into the worl (PS. Wives are just a important to!)  ‘Second feeding of your co! season lawn and the fist feeding of your warm season lawn, Time to plant warm season grass seed such 2s buffalo or blue gramme passes  [Local nurseries have an excellent selection of trees, shrabs, and perennials. Time to start that tanden you designed a fow months back. Place a few pennies in your brdbat. Copper eters fungal rows and is safe for the birds. ‘Watering should be et to higher frequency to reflet the hoter growing months.  Late May  ‘Prune early season lowering shrubs and vines such as lise, forsyhi, wine jasmine, flowering almond, and wistra. You can prune upto the second week of June.  ‘Time to we a granular fungicide on your prize lawe (chiefly fescue and blagrass) to prevent summer fungal problems.  ‘What's blooming in May? Hybrid locust, catalp, tamarisk, and cial (tees), Austrian copper rose, apache plume, weigela, potenti, Jena broom, Spanish boo, woods rose, and ‘Texas privet (shrubs); Red yucea and octillo (cacti and semi-succulets), Deiphinium, ‘alii, baby's breath, red valerian, yellow yarrow, pincushion flower, pentemons, gaura, ‘orcopsis and rd hot poker (perennials); Late ‘tulip, rkntl ile, i, and daily (bubs); abla, lbeli, nasi, verbena, commos, inna, Coleus, margoli, aster and alyssum (nnual).  Theme Gardens ‘ByDan Canalo  ‘What isa Theme Garden?  "A Theme Garden employs the design of arden wo serve a particular we of to tract something to it Some garda themes ae fra specific use such as fragrant on cating gardens, while other atrat living things tothe garden sacha in nmmingbird and ‘aterfly gardens. Tis article briefly desctbes even, popular themes that just might find a place in your ‘garden! Sound intresting? Let's explore them,  Butterfly Garden Uses pants 9 wiract ‘butters, caterpillars, and provid a place fr cocoons to be spun. New Mexico is home to many beautifil ‘types of butterflies including menarchs, painted ladies, swallowtail and mourning cloaks. Also inched in tis garden are wet areas so that adult butterflies can ‘occasionally dink and boulders to sun themsctves. By ‘reatng this habitat, you will encourage adults to lay ‘8, further increasing the number and types of berflies  ‘Hummingbird Garden. Naso ans tas hummingbirds. In New Mexico, hummingbirds ave inary Apei through carly October. Hummingbird gardens provide nectar, water and sheer. Because of the variety of plant types available, an entire garden containing nly nectar producing plants canbe wed all without the use of single feeder! Planing & thurminghid garden will give you a unique insight to ‘hummingbird behavior  ‘Bird Attracting Garden. Atracis a varity of native bird species by providing food, wat and places to rest.  ‘ut this is forthe ‘neta but rather on seeds o fruit. Prodent plant seletion can provide many bed species with 3 ‘naturally grown, year around food supply. When native birds fed off plant sources, rather than feeders, this ‘deters competition fom non-native birds (Ve pigsons), hich are carriers of disease. Serub jays, quail, finches Jjuncos, orioes, and blocirds are but fw, of the ‘many bied species you can atiact to your Sandia Heights garden.  ‘Moonlit or Twilight Garden. romantic garden design especially enjoyed on those warm summer everings where light colored blooms and foliage dominate the garden. Light colored statuary and ‘walkways glow inthe moonlight, Fragrant plants and the sound of lowing water and wind chimes a othe evening's allure Use of candles o mini-tights add ough, but not too much light, so one may stagaze ‘This garden canbe designed fr two people oe more. ‘Smaller spaces, like enclosed courtyards ae ideal locations fora moonlit garden.  Cating Garden, inches lowers suitable ‘be cut and brought indoors for both fresh and ried ‘erangemens. Also inlded ae other items that canbe {gown for aangemens such a leaves, branches, ‘erties, and seed pods. A well thought out design can insure an ample suppl of plant materia for at east tala the yer  Fragrant Garden. Brings th aed incre of fragrance ino your garden to temp your olfactory senses. Trees, shrubs vines, pereials, bubs, end ‘sual have fragra blooms olage, and bak ia 8 sarin of ferent scent.  "Native New Mexico Garden Include plats found througout the state of New Mexico. Most of. these plants are drought tolerant, which can translate ion big savings on your water il. The vst number of ‘etigenows plans is suprise to mos people a they fre generally familiar ony with the tative las found BB ther immedi lal  So, Can More Than One Garden Theme Be Used? Yes. The Moonlit Garden Theme already uses the Fragrant Gardea init but you ean combine several garden themes for a “custom eect”. For example, you ‘ould combine a fragrant and eating garden theme foe  ‘OK Dan, you've got me hooked! How can we find out moce about the specifis of each garden theme?  ‘As you know the Grit is published bimonthly. So, the next article on a specific theme garden will appear in the May/June isso. | may submit a new garden theme extry through summer unless atopic of ‘importance  ax  a0 TRE ITELE]  CLASSIFIED ADS. HAM LEASING AGENT NEEDED Parc-time leasing agent (2-3 days / week). Excellent people skills and professional  EQUIPMENT FOR SALE ‘Leaving New Mexico,  selling all my cabinet shop quality wood  appearance mandatory. Computer skills  helpful. Send or fx resume to:  working equipment: Bridgewood 20° Planer, Brilgewood 12" Joiner, Dela 14” radial arm sav, ‘Newport Properties /PO Box 21571 / Powermatic 66 10° table saw, ‘All, NM 87154 fax: 505-421-6505 Bridgewood 21" band saw,  miscellaneous power tools. ‘Also Vectra 1800 multi-station exercise  'EXPERIENCED 14 YEAR OLD WORKER available for Good for doin odd jobs around the House Siting and Pet Care house while you are away. Watering, Call Anne picking up mail, aking care of pets and ‘MUCH MORE.  856-6896  RETIRED HOSPICE NURSE, ‘Sandia Heights Resident ‘with superb references  Call 856-1483  18 YEAR OLD BOY. ‘With Boy Scout Training and  10 YEAR OLD SISTER Available for babysitting and house st ting Contact Patrick oF Calisa ‘AL 856-1283  13 YEAR OLD GIRL ‘With YMCA Baby sitting taining Available for baby sting and pet care ‘Contact Hilary ‘AL8S6-7023  March Apa 3009 Sandia Heights Garden Makes Bi;  Snounou 8 ViTIS 6.8509)  zzlua ny onbenbnaty  Nearer ee  aneosry sunt SBSH PES  Time  ‘By Joan & Dick Montag, Sandia Heights Residents  Ifyou noticed a considerable brightening of the sky on the afternoon. of February 26th, it was from the big smile onthe face of Dan Caudill, of Tram- ‘way Circle NE, when he opened the Sunset Maga- 7ine's big new WESTERN GARDEN BOOK. The theme photograph gracing the title page is of Dan's entry garden! What a coup!  Many Sandia Heights residents know Dan per- sonally from visiting his gardens during several of the past year’ garden tours. Many more may recall seving his work featured in the June 1998 issue of Sunset Magazine and an article on Dan in the ‘magazine's 1999 Spring & Summer Garden Guide.  mA  From all the hundreds, probably thousands, of ‘gardens photographed for Sunset Magazine, it is hice to have a New Mexico garden picked to repre- sent the theme of the new book. Better sil, that is the work of ove of our own: Dan has contributed many gardening articles to The Grit. Congratulations, Dan!  Last summer, Home and Garden Television phoned Dan and asked to film him and his garden, ‘They plan to air the segment sometime this Spring in an episode to be called "Secret Gardens of New Mexico". Watch for it in the HGTV schedule. Ecdur's mse: se pages 17 and 18 ofthis Grit for arcs by  ff  