THE  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  KEKE TE EEK ERE ERE  SEASONS ;  Architectural Control Committee Jack Wolfe, Chair  LANDSCAPING AND OUR COVENANTS  (Over the years we have watched a gradual change in the landscape of Sandia Heights. Tt has moved from the maintence and cultivation of the ‘egetation that has been natwal for 90 Tong in the Foothills of the Sandia Mountains to tht, both in sign and plas, commonly found ia the builder developed sectors within the area such as Tancan, the lower areas of High Desert and Academy Estates.  ‘One ofthe many wique characterises of our Sandia Heights area his long been the maintained “rata” landscape of the area. This has occured ‘ot by acide, Dut as rent of our covenant and ‘pcifcally by one specific restriction found inthe covenants for “nearly every unit within Sandia Highes, Tha restriction rads a follows: “Natal vegetation isto be left undisturbed, where practical onal lots, except for aces o property clearing of building stes and exablishment of lawns and flower eds adjacent w buikings Please note the wording hjacent to buildings  "As was explained tome neacly 30 years ago when 1 purchased property in Sandia Heighs, the purpose for maintain the natural vegetation and restricting lawns and major Tandscaping intitives tra to maintain the natural appearance of the are, conserve our water supply and to preclude the trmecessaypresure am competition to have the tet inn and landscaped piece of propery within the neighborhood.  More and more, and particularly with new construction and major remodeling ellos, requests ae being received by the Architectural Consol Committee (ACC) so approve significant landscaping plans that ae nx in compliance with the above noted Covenant restrtion Mam of the plans being feccived include plats as well as wees that are not ‘atual to our area. And many of these tees are of {he pe that rapily grow to eights well over 28 let which in de time wll bepin to block the views of homeowners within the area  “As most are aware, the ACC is responsible all Sandia Heights" property owners for ensuring that, all proposed construction and landscaping plans are compliant with applicable covenants. Purthermore, ‘either the ACC ner the Sandia Heights Homeowners ‘Association (SHHA), can ignore covenant ‘requirements nor can they atlempt t0 interpret or change uch. AS noted wichin each st of covenants, ‘the covenants can be changed only with the approval ‘of 75% of the property owners within the Unit. As such, and until an approved change does occur, the ‘ACC and the SHHA' must ensure compliance with the covenants as curently written,  ‘We ask that all home and property owners closely weigh their landscaping desires in light of current covenant restrictions and develop plans that fare within the spirit and intent of the covenants. Maineaining the unique character of our comunity ‘ad is individual units requires the cooperation of all ‘home and property owners.  2003 Residents Directory Is your listing correct’? ‘The 2008 Directory will be coming out in January and we need your help. Take a lok at the address label on your Grit. ‘This information is what we will use to print the directory. You'll sce an address block that looks like: (MN) (UT) 123-4567 Your name  Your address  ‘The first letter in () will be M_for SHHA ‘member or N for non-member.  ‘The second letter in () will be U for unlisted phone number or L for listed phone numbers. ‘The number following the () is your phone ‘number, it will in the directory if that is what ‘you have requested.  Please check the label and contact the office if there are any corrections needed.  (ie Gr  Page #2  ‘November — December 2003)  Covenant Support Committee Frank Soper, Chair  During the past 3 months, the CSC has received 9 complaints about trees blocking views, ‘This isin keeping with the average annual  ‘concem for the views of their neighbors, even ator having discussed the issue with the ‘complainant. Others have, thankfully, taken steps to comply ater the problem was brought to theit attention. We often are asked ‘why didn't Complainants talk to me instead of going to SC? We don't have the answer to question!  ‘The CSC members, wih the input received from the SHHA Board members and legal advisors, have decided to request thatthe  In Memory of Carolyn  Board of Directors approve a motion that states the Covenants support Committee will no longer ‘become involved in complaints relating to ‘overgrown’ trees which have become view blockers.  We encourage all residents to be Neighborly and to respect the rights of your ‘neighbors. if you are planting trees on your ‘property, be mindful of the Covenants and the Present or future effect on your neighbors’ views, Its good practice to discuss your plans with the ‘eighbors before acting on your plans.  ‘The Committee would continue to Investigate and take acton in all tuations where ‘new plantings constitute a screen for neighbors Views or are forbidden species as listed in the Covenants  If you already have grown trees on your property which may cause a screen and block your neighbors’ views, go visit with the ‘neighbor(s) and ask if you are creating a problem, la neighbor has allowed their trees to block your view, oF a tree is one which is forbidden by the Covenants, go meet with them and ask for help in ‘eliminating the problem. COMMUNICATION resolves the vast majorty of the problems when it is done in a FRIENDLY, NEIGHBORLY manner ‘And — if you complainants are not witing to discuss your problem with your neighbors you wal hhave to learn to lve wth lt unt you find another moans of resolution The vast majority of Sandia Heights residents are inclined to listen, respect others’ desires and help resolve problems in a congenial way.  In 1992 after maces averting caer fn Chicago, Cay Hinde an er husand, rd, moved to ‘tee hese Sana eights Caryn tarde!) Pare volved @ durate an commit Oj nating be ene nd ales 1 Hab for Html oh Smart Cosel Cerra Hope for  ‘Charen, aog ater  “Aer tconing Edit of Grit in 1985 she nroaced now sep  eps 24 pg bod sie  mat sd site nvr lo cover be co of pba be eae he Resid Profil, sci Spead ‘papi hat appered in each se 0 ane ners wi the achievers of ow mary re-alesd reahe  ‘The foreseen cecumstances of cating fre father with Alseimers revel he Ferarable gi fr ping an lig ad le oe of ade su Dc of Ores Medne  ‘While her acompsneats wee my, las hr oni aby to  and ring ou bat everyone tha be ly omarksble Se aves behind  ‘Thom who oct he nl cose ly remember the momeet. Those who ar wel sno fest, some il way, se made lerence in ies And hats good a  ‘LULA wool ke than you, Cao  aad  Traffic and Safety Committee Gen Kua Chait  Join the efforts to make our roads safer for pedestrians and children. The Trafic and Safety Commitice has held many discussions concerning methods to calm traffic over the past several years. The most practical means. is to ‘encourage the wse of speed humps. During the past year the County has developed a speed hump ‘engineering standard that makes it possible to slow traffic in 1S mph zones. Previously the lack of a standard had hampered progres.  ‘The twosstep qualification process for requesting speed humps starts with a speed assessment conducted by the county with electronic timers. Residents, or better yet the Trafic and Safety Committe, can request # speed assessment Experience leads us to believe that most roads in ‘Sandia Heights cary a sufficiently high percentage of speeders to pass the first qualification test for speed thumps. (The 85 percentile of speeders exceeding ‘the posted limits by 15 mph i the county standard for ‘considering speed humps.) The second and final step involves obtaining approval by signatures from 75% of the residences along the segment to be treated with speed humps. Our limited experience shows that approximately 25% of our residents may not favor speed humps, so geting action involves some uncertainty. We hope 1 start a more organized effort to win a consensus, but we will need the help of residents willing to solicit approvals. Please contact the SHHA office if you are willing to help support this effort to make our neighborhood safer and quieter. The Trafic and Safety Commitee is starting ‘collection of materials to ad in this effort.  Here are afew factoids on speed  ‘A survey on Juniper Hill showed tha 85° pewentle speed of 32 mph  « mere Soph les han Imeasuremens on Lomas whete tere are si lanes, separate walks for pedestrian, beter visibly, and far fewer driveways  A few short segments in addition to those areas now posted at 25 mph could support safe diving at higher limits than 15 mph. However, lividing the neighborhood into many’ speed zones is ‘not practical and would violate good. traffic engineering practice.  Issuing citations is effective as a temporary measure, but speeders reappear when the police presence is not intensive. Citations are not only Inconvenient, hut the cost of incfeased insurance premiums that result from imperfect records will ‘usually cost far more than the citation itself.  Chamisa. trimming will resume. Please let the office know of special situations.  the land thin 15 feet of the pavement If yon have a special rmeed_o_have_a_exemption_from_the_trinming ‘ncration please register with the ace. ving 30% ‘mame_adiress. and a short explanation We will ‘coordinate these_needs with cov at_actviies ‘resiome, probably in one or two months  ‘The next meeting of the Board of Directors will be Wednesday December 11" 740 9pm atthe William Sibrava Sheriff's Substation Ifyou want to address the Board please contact the office so that the staff ean place your name and the subject you wish to discuss on the agenda. ‘This will help us make time available for you.  (The Grit Page 4  ‘November-December 2009  A.S.A.P, Mortgage Inc.  Stlvador E. Cave ‘onene on  Mota $08 934.4682 Se babla espaol ‘Wecan be you  Mice Mace Monson Mobi $05-238.405 Rates at nal ine lowe reel tine to refinance  £2) 2301 San Peceo NE + Abuquerqu, NM 87110  peVaucnan  Judson MeCothum FREE Market Anse oma ran i (5 858-098  HIS AND HERS BUSINESS HE DOE: SHE DOES:  -WINDOW WASHING UPHOLSTERY] 822-9280 |-HANDYMAN WORK 30 YRS, EXP. ‘s  FF Neenrang te ws RELIABLE — REASONABLE service Jewelry repairs. 286-7575 bo  144 ering Br ME Ane 16 Foe Pape  Nw tenes Long Tam Ca Spc  GE Financial Assurance  endorsement by SHHA or its office es 3 or more written complaints about an advertiser there  or Out Service Estimates & Guaranteed Work  Preferred Phimbing, Heating & Cooling  INDIAN MARKET CENTER From the incion Are to You  Jewry. Pater, Kachina, Fels, Fokert Rugs B Moce  WINDOW CLEANIN'  yet BRANCH 292-6487  Patan cS  eT S Prudential ‘ SK. :  Somes aay  NO MORE ROOF LEAKS  Root Replacement  The EX-EL Company, Inc.  ‘Where Ex-Elence is Essential” 244-3935  www exelfoam com  -Free Estimates -BBB Gold Star Member -30 Yrs. Experience -20 Yr, Warranty Availabl  (Comcast  Kurt Koran  Remember: ints Service and Sandia Heights Security are not a part of Sandia Heights Homeowners Association, They can be reached by calling 857-8924 for Sandia Heights Services and the Mobile number for Sandia Heights Security is 263-4654, their managers number is 856-6347  Treasurers Report, Rick Nebon, Treaserer  Cash Flow ~ October 2002  Inflow  Advertising ~Grit & Directory 60.00 ace $178.00 Interest 6649 Members Dues 797700 From reserve in Checking ‘939.03, From CD reserve 5,000.00  Covenants Sepport 12.70 General Liabitity-Property soa2e Directors Officers Umbrella 0592 Directors & Officers Liability 5972.00 [Architectural Control 102s iBank Charges 029  ise  10822  54.00  36  sis Mileage to staff 60 Ottice Lease sisss Postage Meter Rent-6 months 13092 Security 118 Telephone 16328 Office Staft 2693.84  NOTE: We work on «cash bans, this report shows ‘he sctal Now of cath All bills received by October ‘at were paid and are reflected i this report. There ‘none exception, the printing cost forthe ‘September October Grit of $600,001 tached, but was Bo ald ‘ou November  Condition as at October 31, 2002  Cash and in Banks Checking $ 723680 © ‘38980.19 Petty Cash 15467 “otal Cas and in Bank $43,380.66 ‘Other Assets [at cot} Compaters & Software $395837 ‘Otice Accesories 1448s Oftce Furniture shea Prepaid Postage 7653 300.00 sue 10. 1975278 5909 14,943.47 ‘Total Assets $88,324.12 Liabilities Pledged Open Space Reserve 5 19,000.00 Legal Reserve 15,000.00 Ponte Legal Bl Payment* 7.11128 Operating Reserve 1,900.00 Estimated November Bis 0.00  * Comment: Possible Legal Bill Payment: ‘company should pay this $7,1 defense cost.  REMEMBER: As reported in the recent Little Grit membership dues will increase to $8.00 per month, this wil be billed with your December water billand payable in January. Ifyou have any questions or comments about this increase feel free to contact the office or contact me at home a 856-7159 or by email to relons44aaoLeom  CORRECTION: 1 goofed in the Little Grit, ‘dues mere last raised S years ago, wot 78  Printed in my article, sorry about that. ke Page] November December 200  Novenar Deemer 2009  Security’s mobile number  263-4654 ‘SANDIA HEIGHTS SECURITY 2002 CALLS  IMPORTANT FACT: Sandia Heights Security and Sandia Heights Services ‘are no in anyway a part of Sandia Heights Homeowners ‘Association. Hoth ofthese companics provided important ‘services to the residents of Sandia Heights, and Sandia eights Services is paid, under a contract with SHILA, to collet the monthly membership fee with the utility bil, Ifyou are not helping pay forthe security provided by Sandia Heights Security we urge you to call Jackie at 857-8924 ‘and join up, their service does help protect all Sandia Heights rodents  || Salespeople-Solicitation Problem? Banda Security as tow that tis ot igs fer Salespeople Solicitor o comet our door ules yea po your property. Soi you donot trent tobe bch he people at your dor, and You want Sandia Security r he Sheriff kep them {wy you need o pont Your property wih ig  This type of signs can be purchased at many stores around town,  Communications and Publications Committee Rick Nelson, Chair  This the busy time of he year for this commitee. Time to getthe 2003 Directoy ready be printed. Time to sel advertising for 2003. Teme {0 gt this current Grit inied ad mailed. Past ie to get the Web Site working and current. Not much tine wo write this article  Please remember tht your articles an eters ac always welcome and wil be considered for Publication.  Deadline for the next Grit is January 10°.  Community Service and  Membership Committee (Chick Mad, Chale  The committe is working to develop Aiscount program for SHHA members at local ‘businesses. It is hoped that this program canbe put in place so as to provide savings for SHIA members. Te planning for the annual wine tasting event isalso underway Your ideas ar always welcome!  hears Page  November-December 2003)  Cedar Hill Park History & Update By Bob Christman  In 1996, this 3.75 acre property was posted a8 2 proposed highdensity housing project for 19 homes. ‘The neighbors got together to discuss other lteratves. During the next several yeas, representatives of the neighborhood attended Bernalillo County meetings and suggested that the county buy the property for pack. ‘The progress of the housing development continued and ‘was approved.  ‘Not willing t give up the neighbors continued to meet and received the support of Sandia Heights Homeowners Assoc. (SHHA). The meetings became larger and it became apparent thatthe demographics of Sandia Heights had changed in recent years. Residents ‘were younger and had more children. The need for & park had increased.  This prompted the need for a now plan. Neighbors in a half-mile radius of the property were contacted and informed of the proposed development The consensus was to muke a formal request 10 the county fora park. This was accomplished by submitting  Bemalillo County Capital Improvement forms at their ‘anual Capital Improvement mecting. “There were approximately 70 forms submited to the county by individual residents of Sandia Heights in the above mentioned half-mile radius. The county was surprised at the interest and started to consider it a2 « possbili ‘They approached the contractor and were able to agree ‘on a price to purchase the property. This was done in December 2000,  The park is not fally fnded as of this date, but some money has been provided by the State, County and SHHA. Also, BPLW an Architectural firm has donated ‘design and enginecrng services to SHHA. This donation hhas been passed on tothe county which will reduce the total cost of the park and allow Phase I of the park to  The county and state are much more likely to find ways to come up with funds when they see funds ‘and services donated from local homeowner associations (SHIA) and local companies (BPLW).  ‘A portion of the increase in SHIA dues will support future efforts like this and help provide more ‘open spece, parks, et. to fit the lifestyle ofthe residents ‘of Sandia’ Heights. During the last several SHA ‘monthly meetings there Was no opposition 9 the 19,000. donation for this park or the increase in the ‘ducs to support future open space plans.  Construction of the park might begin by the summer of 2003. We'll keep working on this” goal  Ny  A message from your friendly mail person!!!  The post office cannot deliver mail to your mailbox if you do not keep the weeds and brush cleaned up from around it. They have to have room to drive up to your mailbox, put in the mail, and drive away without getting out of their vehicle. Guess if we want our mail we have to keep it cleaned up for them,  fixer So)  November December 200:  COMMENTS FROM MEMBERS AND  REPLIES TO COMMENTS: By: Rick Nelson, Treasurer and Chair ofthe ‘Communications and Publications Commite,  Since mid November, when we mailed over 2,100 copies of the Badget Addition” of the Tittle Grit to all Sandia Heights Residents, we have ‘received 4 letters fall via email] commenting on the 2003 Budget and the fact that your Board of Directors felt the ‘monthly dues needed to be raised from $5.00 10 $8.00 ‘per month.  Lack of space makes it impractical to publish the fall content ofeach of these leurs. Further, many of the ‘concems expressed were the same. Therefore, | have ‘extracted and replicd 10 the main concerns in these Jesters,  We want to thank James Sauvage [SHHA Member], Jim Wise (former SHHA Board) Member] ‘Chris Harmon (former SHA Board Member and wife ‘of current member Glenn Kuswa] and George Richmond [SHHA Member} for taking the time 10 express thei Board member. Association members may obtain a copy by going tothe association office  ‘Before I goto the Comments and Replies I have ‘nc thought T would like to express, We on tis and past Boards volunteered time and efforts to help maintain and improve our community. When you have over 2,100 homeowners in a community there are many many views on what should or should not be done. This ccurrent Board, and the Boards before us, arewere ‘bombarded with all ofthese views and then have/had 10 tty to sort them out and decide what can be and what should be done for our community. Also, what has 1p Priority? One thing this board has leamed, our Community is changing as it grows and thus the needs and demands of the community are not the same as even 5 years ago. Believe me, iti not always an eay call.  wus  The question was raised a6 to when the dues were increased inthe past, what was the purpose ofthe increase? Did the curent board follow these guidelines ‘There was also the question of the current Board giving adequate notice of the pending increase and the need for the increase?  1 did goof and make a typo inthe special Budget Addition the increase was 5 years ago, not 7.  Board minutes indicate that at the Arm Meeting of Members held June 7. 1997 Janey Brink ‘moved, seconded by Duke Colket, thatthe SHA board raise the dues to $5.00 from $3.5O/month, with $1 going  ‘0 park development. Discusion followed The motion ‘was amended 1 ask the board to consider raising dues, deleting the criteria on amon or how spent. The ‘motion was seconded, and passed  At the August 1997 Board of Directors meeting ‘the Board voted to increase the des 10 $5.00 per month ‘effective January 1, 1998, again there is no recordin the offen minutes of en eriteria specified regarding howe the money was tobe spent. Conclusion with mo erteria ‘specified the Board hadha1 the authority to decide howe ‘these funds should be spent.  ‘At the 2002 annual meeting of members I spoke 10 the possible need of increased duet. My comments ‘were published in full in the first Grit following that ‘meeting. Bob Francis also touched on this subject in ‘Is frst article as President, also published in that sue lof the Grit Since that time Ihave published a financial ‘report in each Issue that has shown the Association ‘expenses were greater than its income. In one issue of ‘the Grit we also published the 2001-2002 budget along ‘withthe actual income and expenses for that period.  ‘In the September-October 2002 Grit T wrote we ‘would be sending out copy of the 2003 budget and that 1 would be discussed at the November 20° meeting and ‘that changes, if ary. would be voted on atthe December IL* meeting. The 2003 budget was published im the November Lite Grit  With all of this being published only one ‘association member came to a BOD meeting to talk ‘about the Budget during the period June 10 November 2002. We thought that all of the published Plus the comments made in the budget explained the ‘needs forthe increase. This thinking has not changed.  ‘Cedar Hill Park — why did the Board fel the ‘eed to spend SHIA funds on this “fully fanded™ pack ‘and why didn’t We let the membership know about this?  The Cedar Hill Park isa project that hax been ‘ongoing for several years. The project was started and (pushed by a substantial member of Sandia Heights ‘Residents with the support of several long time open space advocates like Janey Brink We all voted, or ‘could have voted, on the Bond Issue that provided the Junding for the County to purchase this property. This ‘bond Issue and subsequent funding from the State did ‘not “Pally Frond” this near Million dollar projec.  There have been several articles in the Grit regarding this project, n the July-August 2002 issue of ‘the Grit it was armounced that the Board would vot, at the August 2002 Board meeting, to pledge $19,000.00 10 ‘help kickstart this project. The only people who come t0 the August 2002 Board to aciress this Leeue ‘were in favor of the Board taking this action.  Grit a0  November December Tis action bythe Board was one of he factors that motivated BPLW Architects & Engineers Inc. 10 nate Landscape Design and Civ Engineering services for this park to SHA, SHHA then donated {these services th Count) as part of its suppor fortis projet. This was al reported in the Seprember October  12002 Grit  Some people living in Sandia Heights may not fel another park is important, however, there ‘are many mary ofthe new generation of Sandia Heights residents who have Children and have a very different view. Note: For more details on the Park read Bob (Christmans article on page #9 ofthis Grit  ‘Why are we hiking about spending money for ‘els and more acess to forestiand?  This question has beon covered n mary articles, and discused by many guests ox Board Imectings. We have budgeted $1,000.00 to bmvesigate ‘evel  “As mentioned before the demographics of Sandia Heighs are changing. and with more and more Sou people there 8 more pressre 10 provide safe walking trails aed beter access 10 the forestlands  Can we do this? I for one am mot certain that ‘the overall design of Sandia Heights wil perm al hat ‘has been requested. Ido fel thar with 30 muck interest being. exressed by many SHHA members the Boards obligated o ivetigte al possiblities.  ‘We can mot sh our eyes to the foct that many property owners re overran by trespassers cross  Drivate property 10 reach the forest land and that any Sporn wll ep mone  ‘nthe past to years there have been many meetings with concerned residents and goseroment fica plus lng hours devoted to stud) of the problem of safe walking als and forest accese  EOURTH  ‘One writer says we solicit comments from the ‘membership but we neither print the comments in the ‘Grit oe distributed them to metabers ofthe Board.  Some comments and letters have not been Printed, that i true. Sometimes we receive a ler just ‘after the curren issue of the Grit has been printed 30 it ‘cannot go into that Grit, then two months later the subject is a dead issue  1 has been the written and published policy of the Grit for at least the past 090 years not 10 print ‘anything submitted that was insulting Ubelous or false. However. copies ofall leners received are available to oth Board Members and SHHA members at the “Association office  [No article that is timely and meets the above mentioned Grit Policy has, to my Knowledge ever been  sept out of the Grit or not been made available 10 the Board members  “Taree ofthe lters received take issue with legal ‘expenses of the SHHA. It has been asked, why do We ‘have legal expense? Why have legal expenses increased? Why do we harass people who live ia Sandia Heights?  111s unfortunate that we have legal expenses. but that i the result of one ofthe main reasons for having a homeowners association. This reason Is 10 enforce the ‘covenants and when some people refuse to follow the [Ewilelines writen and recorded inthe covenants the ‘association has no choice bul 10 see tht the covenants fare enforced. One ofthe big legal costs 1s 10 defend ‘aga lpal action taken by people who do not want 10 Jollon the covenants  When ever possible your association has tried 10 sete these problems out of court, at times the courts ‘have ordered arbitration. both beng less expensive then ‘going all the way 10 a final ruling by the court. At fines. in the pat, negotiation and arbiration has rested in the ACC making some modfication to its rulings. But itis of interest to me that I can fnd no record of any court raling against or imposing ary Judgment on the asociaion for actions ofthe ACC. All ‘Court ring have ypheld the actions ofthe ACC.  ‘One cease cased a large increase In legal costs: the ACC ruled that a propased second sory ‘con oan exiting home would violate the covenants Of that wit's resvriction of Blockage of views. A Ineighbor opposed this addtion and was also sued. The Court ruled in favor of the ACC decision. But this case cost our insurance carrier over 360,000.00 and our Jnswance premium rose from 31,200.00 per year 10 ‘over $5,000.00 per year and owr deductible went from $31,000.00 $10,000.00.  The association attempts 10 enforce the ‘covenant as written with no intention to harass anyone The Covenants have faults, these fits make them hard ‘work with You as members can help correct this by working with the Board's ad hoc Covenant Review Comnitice tht is trying t0 update the covenants, some of units have covenares tht are atleast 30 years old  ‘Al the comments have not been adrewsed on these two pages, but I believe the most pertinnt ones Ihave been spoken 1. I personally have recived many ‘comments over the past 30 months praising the way he SHIA is printing its finuxcial reports with 90 ‘complaints until these T have, in this Grit, comment shout = to me this indicates majority satisfaction with your board if am wrong tell me.  [sone Page  Novemer December 2009)  rolanas bent seins vows SaNOA HEIHTS eee em Rated NE neocron N 87122 oaguandenommoenenrg Wee aoe ot un Chae SHA Offe= oben haan ME ‘Senaaoa Stanwaen sony ay sutt | Usa Jacobsen | ‘Worne Fel  Offers Bob Francs resideat us Frazier, Vise Pro. Scot Predeic, Secretary Rick Nelwo, Treanwer | 5 Cheryl Tver, Assistant ‘Secretary/Treasurer ‘Meiers Mark Bosiogh Dick Brackett, Jake Chaser Tim Cook Larry Desooier ‘Richard Frederiksen ‘Tim Hale Glens Kuwa, | Chuck MeLeod | Ed Payne Ralph Rup Heinz Schmitt, Shady Sehwery Frank Sopet Wendy Wells Tack Wolfe  MEMBERS CL  Free for SHI  PERIENCED 16 YEAR ‘OLD BABYSITTER Great with kids Available after schoo! ‘and on weekends, Call 821-0482 and ask for Becky  11 YEAR OLD GIRL Available for house-siting ‘and pet siting,  Contact Calisa at 856-1283,  15 YEAR OLD BOY  With Boy Scout Training is avait  able for odd jobs and house-siting Contact Patrick at 856-1283  WANTED: Person to do oda jobs. ‘Must have pick-up truck Call Doug. 858-3406  RESPONSIBLE 16 YEAR OLD Will baby-sit and care for ‘Your children Evenings or weekends Call Heather | 796-0601  EXPERIENCED TUTOR Elementary, Middle & High Shoo! Sandia Heights resident. Current High Schoo! Teacher WS. Regular Education, {Biology and Geology) MA. Special Education, {Gifted and Learning Disabled} Former intrustor ot UNM, ‘At College of Education References available Contact Lynn 856-6605  _ASSIFIED ADS  A Members  EXPERIENCED 14 YEAR ‘OLD WORKER Good for doing odd jobs around ‘the house while you are avay. ‘Watering, picking up mail, taking care of pets and MUCH MORE. (Call 856-1483 and ask for Jordan  EXPERIENCED 16 YEAR OLD BABY/HOUSE SITTER Red Cross Child/infant CPR trained. Very responsible and great with kids oF Al Ages.  (Own Transporation Available (Call Olivia @ 321-7975  RETIRED HOSPICE NURSE Sandia Heights Resident with superb references available for House Siting and Pet Care Call Anne - 856-6896  POR SALE [all excellent condition) Glass table, 36x 60, with 6 cane chairs. And 2 matching barstools {1 nceds new seat}, Loveseat, [awe leather, Simmons, sand Fawn color] large chrome are light, 6 ft with black meal base Call Marsha 856-3352  PET CARE, HOUSE CARE ‘AND BABY-SITTING Sandia Heights resident available to care for your pet or house and baby-siting too. Contat Moly at 1856-1275 afer 10:00 am  ] County of Bernalille State of Nese Mlesica ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT ii usonsoumeie anere Aauouenae New aca ne sro ness tn cos sso  Radon  ‘As summer transitions into fall, we begin to spend more of our time indoors and ‘home indoor air quality becomes of more concem. One commonly known indoor air contaminant is radon. Radon is a naturally occurring, invisible, odorless gas that comes from deposits of uranium in soil, rock and water. Its harmlessly dispersed in outdoor air, but when trapped in buildings, it can be harmful, ‘especially at elevated levels. The primary source of high levels of radon in homes is the surrounding soil.  Radon is present throughout the United States, butis known to be more prominent in the Rocky Mountain States. ‘The U.S. Environmental Protection ‘Agency estimates that as many as one in 15 homes across the United States have elevated radon levels. Radon gets into homes through cracks in the ‘foundation, floors of walls, holow-block walls, and openings around floor drains and pipes.’ Radon is found in all types of homes; new homes, old homes, well sealed and drafty homes, and homes with or without basements.  Radon is a health concem because exposure to radon isthe second leading ‘cause of lung cancer inthe United States. Radon can be inhaled into the lungs. ‘Once in the lungs it undergoes radioactive decay. As it decays, radon releases tiny bursts of energy that can harm king tissue possibly leading to lung cancer. For individuals who smoke and have high levels of radon in their home, their lung cancer risk is especialy high  The only way to be sure of your home's radon level isto test. Radon test its that meet U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. guidelines can be obtained from 2 radon testing company or laboratory, You can obtain a listing from the New Mexico Environment Department Community Services Bureau at (505)-476- 8531. Do-tyourself test kits can be found at hardware stores and home improvement stores, or, you can hice a trained contractor to perform the test. if you find your radon levels higher than pCi the U.S. Environmental Protection ‘Agency and the Centers for Disease Control recommend that you fix your home. ‘The cost ofthese repairs depend on how your home was built and other factors.  f you have questions about Radon contact the Bernalillo County Efivironmental Health Department at 314-0310.  (iiecim Fae Noveniber December 2009  General Accounting Office, "people and the ‘environment are exposed to manly. pesticides that hhave not been fully evaluated for their potential to  i  children diagnosed with A.D.D. and put ox Ritalin is sstounding. Many of these children have allergies, land have toxic body overload. The most  ‘of the polluters is pesticides. After twelve ‘of exploring options for our own health, 1 ean ‘around and make connections between health problems and the use of chemical in and around the  {I  The 2002-2003 Gifts of Hope alerative- giving catalog i sow available. Sponsored by the "New Mexico Conference of Churches, Gifts 0 f Hope is unlike ordinary catalogs, which are fll of things People relly dot need ot want  Here, for example, you can onder a Christmas ‘card to send to someone you love, which might say "In your honor comforting. stuffed animal was purchased for a scared child facing cancer surgery” This cand would include information about the Children's Cancer Fund of New Mexico. Or you ‘might choose a card saying, "In your honor an hour of art therapy was provided for a hurt, confused chil," This card would include information about the BAI Family Services.  ‘Choose from 145 gifts provided by 32 charitable service organizations ‘based in New ‘Mexico, serving people locally and abroad. You will receive a Christmas card describing your charitable gift then you send the card as your gift to the one {you love and are honoring  “The catalog has something 10 suit almost ‘every interest. One dolar and up. Every cent is ax ‘deductible and gocs to the charities you select. These truly are gifts of hope and love.  ‘Also, you can we the catalog to order special cards for binhdays, anniversaries. of memorial gifts anything you can think of  ‘Call Stephen Werner st 856-1481 for a catalog. It may suprise you  Gat  aa  ‘Novemiber- December 2 TED ADS FOR MEMBER'S AND THEIR CHILDREN NO COMMERCIAL CLASSIFIED ADS  ‘To placean ad please call the SHILA oie at 797-7783 or send text copy of the at: SPM Monday through Fri  ‘THE STOFAC TEAM SEIS.  BliteHomes ome  Pua srorac 29.7720 ISewesromc ae 1013 879-2500  Enchantment Speech Language Patholosy Services, LIC  Victoria S. Smid¢ M.S., CCC-SLP 4217 Montgomery Bled. NE Albuquerque, New Mexico 87109 (605) 880-2220 Fax (605) 830-4400  -BAC-  Bit ARDON ARTIAN  PREMIER SERVICES Repairs & Maintenance Fast - Rta - Reasonable eense - Inaed = Bonded  Free Evie!  Our “Target” ie your “Satisfaction  Are You Living Your Best Life? Support «Sractre + Tol »lsight Chalonge »Aconmtbly»Nexivation Celebration» Encouragement» Honest Feedback Sigrid Gustafvon, CPC Personal and Professional Coach Call for halftour sample couching sesion 505-855-180 Fa 505 86-9384 ema: sgdg@c seco com  Sandia Environmental Designs  Landscape Design & Consultations Cleanup & Hauling  Dan Caudillo (508) 856-6617  INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT RETIREMENT PLANNING WORKSHOPS 2 1 ont JEVERY WEDNESDAY MORNING @ 9:15 AM] ‘THANK YOU TO ALL OF THE SAND  FREE Market Analysis SSRI0 ae (805) 888-030  Te usin Conroy Rahn  ‘Church ofthe Good Shepherd, ‘United Church of Chit "7234 Tennyson, NE 55-1008 Sundy Sarees 8308 10308 Carer sett Nesey #0300 Summa Sty Seren (reg) 90 ans. OR, B60 Moe psn ogee org  Telcos nants or ‘on mee  Kitchens « Bathrooms + Home Additions iféiodelingmadeeasy.com 883-4040 Visit One of New Mexico's Largest Kitchen & Bath Showrooms  2826 Washington NE @ bike. $. of Menaul)  REMODELING  HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS: ND Si  Sandia Presbyterian Church sans Stonguany seen uk SERENE aera  Coggmunty nation  Ue. #51199  11910 Del Rey NE ‘Abuquergue. NM 87122 (505) 856-8233,  JEFF SPECK, CR. General Contactor  JAD Enterprises Inc. Design & Construction ‘wor jaceenterprises.com  Thomas Smidt lt ‘Tex, Estate & Business Law "217 Montgomery NE Albuquerque, NM 87109 Tom Smt, storey, wishos to thank al of his Sandia  Heights clon neighbor for thelr uport and ret  058902000 Fe 505-090-4400  Gardener’s Calendar By: Dan eauaillo  Early December  ‘Bulbs forced indoors (for holiday color aod ftagrance) should be placed in a bight, sunny ‘window.  Continue to feed binds drought the winter  ‘Select an ice melt that is safes to se around plants or we sand  oinsttias are native to Mexico and come in many colors and variations. Place in a well-lit area ‘but away from any beat sources.  ‘Complete your Fall/Winter cleanup prior tothe lida season!  ‘Two main types ofeut Christmas trees are Douglas Fir and Noble Fir. Check to see if your tree is  fresh by grasping a branch and puling it along the stem. ‘Moat ofthe needles should remain on the ree and notin your hand.  ‘Use a humidifier to add moisture to indoor air ‘and it wil eliminate sore and scratchy noses and ‘thats.  Mid-December  ‘Don’ forget to water outdoor plants once every two weeks. Water in the middle ofa clear dey. Many plans defor lack of water in winter.  ‘December 2 is the frst day of winter  1 you pla on having a living Christmas tree ‘his yar, it place in garage for 1 or 2 days. Then place indoors for a maximum of 410 $ days but kexp away from heat registers. Scection of living Christmas tees {include Austrian Black Pine, Colorado Blue Spruce and ‘Austrian Pine  Ct fresh evergreens forthe holidays. Place cut ‘beach in a bucket of water and place inthe garage ‘unl rey 10 use.  Late December Luminaria tour is an excellent cultural event for  ‘out-of town company. Tours usually occur on the 2th cof December  December 25. Merry Christmas! Plant tving Christmas tees outdoors Recycle cut Christmas Tree at Rowlands Nursery  Early January - Happy New Years Day! January isthe coldest month ofthe yew. Use winterize frtlizer on cool season lawns. Remember to recycle your cut Christmas tee.  Mid January  ‘Many Garden Seminars given, so watch the local newspiper for time and dats  ‘To encourage spring sucker growth on aspheries, cut old stems tothe ground  Pile snow on pecnies to keep them cold.  Raking yard of debris helps keep insect and siseasa in check.  ‘Water your garden about every two weeks inthe emoon on waemer days  Late January  “This is great time to plan foe your new spring landscape.  ‘Cut branches of forsythia, pussy willow, winter jasmine, lowering quince, spies, apple, peach, and ‘cherry. Place in a vase and blooms wil appear in 1103 swocks  gin to prune frit and omamental ees  ‘Transplant shrubs and tees now to minimize ‘eansplant shock,  Repot houseplants.  Ifyou have an outdoor pond with fish, ‘remember to thaw a hole by melting the ie and not by cracking the ie by stvikng it —the vibration can injure fish,  (iheGrit  Page #17  {This article was first printed in the January-February 2002 Grit  Watering Tips For Sandia Heights acre Darton weet te eh  foes s Docume spire That maps Sng Se Spe om my mid goes pag ing Wate Plans in Pal and Winter? ‘ag, ems Seated at ee Moret Teaen raed wae) Siu dats ee ae a dorm Call seen mows sn nmi eep oe prand SE eee a inet derma. ol nmr uy ene net et en sy te mi sere "Seated Year Rend Watering Schedale ovny ei ea stone aie wrens tay ag Scat ng olde eget of Fal md Wea? sna hve pot sway sender Ca i. Yeu witb wong wot tet yp nmring ee tpl: Neal, owe a here CTOs Serer eave Slnpaesieret pen men  i, Spaiotertan eens sbengtinet Pa se cotices ae up tetann ee colina egestas steerer en pe  awe Baste  ‘blooms | reason = =  SSeS pew Sateen wore ieee | ee aes eg ct  une the dormant suo an is res wa 1 cone ‘Attest ach of ino nce ofsnow ay pedo  Spo Ra i eaten elmer ange  Silom Fy Sehroecte ome goes or ae  Provocsaie ses arents  ™ The xewer i to Gow lone sprinklers sry reman comune  me IE controls your sprinklers, =  i Ur i fil ir  Hl f i La  roger ae dita ub tged 240 aL Bee lat eet wate tenpeees one act eg Seed Waseing Terme Teeny ectans Wenig arcim ae tang et ws understand Bee | 3. Late Spring and Summer (ay ough Mi September) an 1 Wantag Spey Renae © mgpet te ace eee Sepeney ring iy an ween Pett fe ya Thr eey sean 3. docs tock urn at ine of 60 AN Ta0 AN Tempte ay ied vt ed of Xs our we 100° in mi Sem ch nay ee Sly Semen sesh esc oe emp Sei es ac an a fob seten coety reo hey od cece ko oe ‘Sa over «atten pot conse» mcg de Tis yt meet wring ede dig {est wei perid cb sipped. Api. he aeng cold months because mow spent to kept sol molt ring Pee ‘ovo Wir Bowl W hy amt het 4, Ly Fl (he Spent hgh Coot), Wa tne ‘egeofchr ono egal | ach cin fi oe ‘ean ‘igang amen ‘out of Decne, 3a nis sf aw (Dean ‘eed w rhe wey, Exel ve aber Gen rong Sune Thigh) os mene your pas have eve Summer Fal can sel he wang Sogo sad mot lean cei of a inch arin 31 ype Tht — oe Son Sinerooe eentfam es oom enter age Wong donor Ses nt one  ise Tage Tovar Devenber 2004  Water Supply for Sandia Heights By: Fa Payne, SHITA Board Menber  “Do we have enough water” and “Where does our water come?” ae two questions often posed by homeowners in Sandia Heights. The residents of Sandia Heights receive their water supply. from ‘Sandia Heights Services. The source ofthe water is ‘wo groundwater supply wells. A third well that could be used as a backup is located on pueblo property. Sandia Peak Utility Company provides ‘water {0 2,176 residences in Sandia Heights and Primrose Pointe. The water supply wells were installed in 1986. Since then, there has been m0 ‘eduction in productivity  ‘The two wells are pumped during the night from 8 pm to 8 am to tke advantage of off-peak electrical rates. During this twelve hour period, @ total of 1,764.00 gallons could be pumped. The production of water in the summer is approximately 1,576,000 gallons per day Gly 2001). In the winter, ‘the production is approximately 86,500 gallons per day (December 2001). During the entire year of 2001, Sandia Heights residens used 263,595,494 gallons of water. This equates to appeoximately 133  Meeting Announcement  Wednesday January 15, 2008 at ‘Speaker: Mr. Dan Caudillo  ‘Location: 2744 Tramway Circle  gallons per person per day use by Sandia Heights residens, assuming 25 people per residence. ‘Typical water ute forthe city of Alfuquergue s 205 salons per person per day (Albuquerque Journal) and 150 gallons per person per day forthe city of. Santa Fe.  Approximately ninety per cent of the water used inside the house isnot consumed; that is, water from showers, washing machines and dish washers 0 down the rain and re-enters the shallow aquifer through the septic system oF to the river through the sewerage system. The water used outside the house for landscaping is nearly afl consumed; tat i, the plans use it oF it evaporates and does not return to the shallow aguier  Sandia Heights Services has a web site at ‘wonwsmnabsihissrvse.com, Information, on ‘water quality ean be found at the Sandia Heights Uiilties tab. The good news is that here is no detectable ‘asenic in our water (detectable concentration: 1 microgram per liter of part per bill (ppb). The curent US EPA drinking water standard (MCL) for arsenic i $0 pp. ‘This standard willbe reduced to 10 ppb in 2006. There are many lioks fom this website incuding Tandscopingyimigationxerscaping, drought and ‘activites within the region and surrounding states. If there is a leaking faucet in your home, the ‘WaterWiser calculates bow much waters jus going down the drain for example, 20 drops per minute results in 86 gallons of water per month going down the drain.  30 PM.  Mr. Dan Cail is well known bythe Grit readership. His regular article provide valuble information to novice as well a J expert gardeners. He isthe speaker a the January meeting and ‘ill talk about hummingbirds and their favorit flowering plants. Mr. and Mrs. Call are also graciously hosting this meeting at  their home.  ‘All Sandia Heights resident are welcome to join the members for any ofthe events.  ‘To become a member, please send a check forthe annual membership fee of $5 payable tothe Sandia Heights Wildflower Club to Susan Cook, 1842 Tramway Terrace Lp, ATbuquerque, NM 87122 to cover ues for one yer.  Unit Coordinators Needed  ‘By Bob Francis president  There are 15 SHH unis, which have no representation onthe Board of Directors. Unit Coordinators can provide a vital communication ink between the unit residents and the association. Helping the residents  Understand the unit covenants wil also be an important responsibilty ofthe Unit Coordinator Attending the monthly Board of Directors meetings would be important but not mandatory  The SHIA units, which need unit coordinators inchade: 0,2, 3, 467,1619,21,23,24,25.26,27, & 28. Ifyou are interested in becoming a Unit Coordinator please contact the SHHA office. The SHIA voluntaries are the people who make Sandia Heights a better place fr al of ws  If you are not an SHHA member please join, your help and support will be greatly appreciated by your neighbors. $8.00 is the small monthly fee. Call 797-7793 to join.  ts  PRESORTED STD. US. POSTAGE PAID  Sandi eg Howes Aston PERMIT #375  Plog it ALBUQUERQUE, NM  2003 Residents Directory Is your listing correct? 2003 Diretory wil be coming out in and we need your help. Take a fok at label on Your Grit. This informa: ‘ion is what we will use w prin the direcoy. ‘You'll ee an addrss block that looks like: c (MUN) (U/L) 123-4567 L . Your name jo Your address The fist letter in) willbe M foe SHHA member oF N for non-member The second ltr in () will be U for ualisted phone nuraber oe L or listed phooe mambers. The number following the () is your hone mumber, ic wil in the dzectory if thas what you have requcsted. Please check the label and contact the effice if there are any corcetons ness,  