THE  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association September-October 2002  the SHHA Board is cone  Speeding cars a Fire Protection ae  ‘Oppose Commercial Development Improved Sruriy a  Legal access to Mountain ‘Trai Protect your views  Safety for our Children Safe Water Supply  Covenants Ep And much much more!!!!!  Please let us know your concerns, we will listen!  Sandia Pueblo Mountain Claim — Last minute news flash Since the writing of Dick Brackets article stating on page #4, an agreement between Sandia Pucblo and New Mexico's Senators has heen achieved, which essentially conforms to the Board resolution onthe remaining poins that were question  {All parties are to be congratulated on the successfil completion of very difficult negotiations. If this legisla tion is now passed by the Senate and House the results oftheir work and compromise wll benefit all New Mexico  ‘The loss of a good friend of Sandia Heights  | On September 26, 2002 we lost our dear fiend Carolyn Hinde, Most residents of Sandia Heights knew Carolyn as Eéitor ofthe Grit and the Directory for many years price to he illness. Those who  || sew ner perc eal hes eendoon oy i vn an her remarkable bait 0 pas it on wo other  | SHEA extends its condolences to Carolyys husband, Fred, and to their families  ‘Community Service and Membership Committee  (Our hard working chair, Finian Murpéy has resigned ffom the SHIA board so that be and his wife can mect other commitments in our community. Finian contributed a great deal to SHILA in the 2 years and 4 months he served on the board.  ‘The committe will soon meet and elect a new chair and resume its many projets  Communications and Publications Committee Rick Nelson, Chair  Jim Cook thas resigned as chair of this committee because ofthe heavy workload be has as flaw student at UNM. We are thankful that he will ‘continue on the commitiee and handle the technical ‘development work on our Web Site.  ‘The Commitee elected Rick Nelson to be chit, Scott Frederick wil be keeping the Web Site posting current. Cheryl Iverson is overseing the file of advertising, for the year 2005. Kalph Rudolph is starting to evaluate our method of in- ‘house printing with the hope of finding a better and ‘more cost effective way to produce the Grit, And the whole commie will be working on putting out the Grit, Lite Grit, Directory and information for the Web Site.  To keep our publications interesting and timely ‘we still need articles and letters from you, the residents of Sandia Heights.  Architectural Control Committee  Jack Wolfe, Chair  Afer providing over 2 years of dedicated service to ‘SHEA John Coffey has resigned from the SHEA ‘Board. Joln and his hard work willbe missed. Jock Wolfe has been elected chair of the ACC. Because of this change we didnot submit an article for this ‘issue ofthe Grit, we have reprinted, in part, the ACC Annaal Report Article because of is important Information  Several thrusts were ‘hough the year Sandia Heights resent awareness of the committee to include its functions and responsibilities relative to the Sandia Heights covenants and its efforts 10 work with home and ‘owners, has increased ‘appreciably. Architects, builders, and Realtors have ‘alo become aware of Commitee policies and ‘guidelines. The committee continues 10 stress its harered olf safeguard the trac of Senda  ‘And welcomes residents to attend its mectings. ‘Obiaining time on the committee's meeting agenda requires advance coordination with the ACC's ‘Administrative Assistant at 797-7793,  7 Special Public Seminar on Culteral Diversity at Church ofthe Good Shepherd  Dr. C. Stewart Doty, Professor Emeritus of history a the University of Maine, wil speak on “Good news, bad sews of 20° cenary diversity: How people of fait and eubers confronted faci, anti-Semitism and the Civil Rights movements” on ‘Sunday, November 10, 2002 a 12:30 inthe Fellowship Hall of Church of the Good Shepherd, ‘7834 Tennyson St. NE, Albuquerque.  ‘This seminar is open to the Sandia Heights ‘community and others with no admission. A reception will follow the presentation, For more information you may phone S05-856-1004 between 9am and 12 no0n MF.  Card pages numbered 15 and 16 instead of I at  Boy did I goof when [numbered the pages, yes I did, please forgive me when you find the Business  12 just had another senior moment. Rich _  2  October 200:  1 Resolution Concerning Senate Bill 2018 Dy Dick Brackett,  Regarding Senate Bill # 2018: T'uf Shur Bien Preservation Trust Area Act”  ‘Be itresolved thatthe Sandia Heights Board of Directors eathusasically and unequivocally sup- ont the purpose and specifics of the proposed Act.  ‘The Sandia Heights Board of Directors encourages Senators Bingaman and Domenico expei- tiously work with Sandia Pueblo representatives to finalize language incorporating the Pucblo's ‘proposed changes into the legislatin, and to obtain quick consideration of such revised legisla ‘ton by the United States Senate and House of Representatives  Aso for ismocs within he Ac. remaining tobe resolved:  1. "Traditional and Cultural” ws of the Preservation Trust Arce 1 The Board sopors Pocblo regulation of rations! and cultural wes ‘within the Trost Area ii There is a concer for sfey shoul firearms be use in lose prxinity to eidenil aes {iL By this resohuton, itis ecommendod tht the “Treditiona and Cultural, Uses" at peraining to bunting with fiearms, be confined to «mapped, ‘wpopanicallysereptedaea, which naturally remot, way fom (Gotta protimly 0) roidetial weas ot major wa  2 By thisretolton the Association suppers the prinepe that Pueblo rights and inter {2s under Sebsecion Se ofthe Act shouldbe compensable inorder to provide a ‘Significant csinoentve to further devetopment within the Tit Are.  3. Bythis resolution, The Board urges te purchase ofthe Pad Lisa Tract proc, or 18 result of the pasage ofthis Act. Ifthe Pueblo of Saniais succesful in the pur chase the Deparment of Agricul surged to puchas a conservation easement {rom the Pucblo to amare thet the tacts never developed, end to pachie eight of ‘ay forthe Piedra Lise Tra This Boers suongly opposed to the development of {be Piedra Lis tract and will vigorously oppose ary fue development of ta tat.  4 Astothe exchange of Puclo owned land, cluding the La Lu trac, the Evergreca Wit ropertics, and ther properties, this Board suppor the efforts o provide for an equitable exchange of lands, which willbe of mutual benefit o ares homeowners, the Foret Service, and the Publ of Sandia.  ‘This resohton was passed with the unanimous vote of te Board menbers preset In addin, the oard was pleased that Ani Miler, co-chairman of the Sandia Mounain Coalition, aicded the Board ‘meeting, Ste sated thatthe Conlon did not oppose the boards resolution, and she and Bill Kiely, co- ‘huis ofthe Colton had helped with specific lan- tage forthe Boats resoltion.  ‘The Sandia Pucblo Boundary issue is a long- standing dispute that has defied resolution until now. ‘The original stempt at resolution by the Solicitor of  ‘the Interior Department and issued in 1988 was over- ‘umes bya federal district court in 1998. The federal ‘court of appeals has heard and dismissed the appeals to that decision. In January 2001, Secretary of the Interior Babbit (just before leaving office) concurred with an Opinion prepared by the Solicitor of his de- ‘parent. Tht Opinion conchoded that a resurvey of the Pueblos easter boundary should be conducted.  Continued on Page #4  ‘Resolution Concerning Senate Bill 2018 - continued  After the district court decision, which set aside as defective the 1988 Solictor's Opinion, efforts were made to settle the dispute without additional litiga- tion. An agreement was reached between and with several ofthe parties involved ~ The US Foret Ser- vice, The Pucblo of Sandia, The Tram Company, The ‘Bureau of Indian Affuirs, The Department of the Tnte- tor, and the Deparment of Agriculture. However, ‘not all of the participants in the negotiations con ‘cured in the setlement. Specifically, those parties not in agreement were the Sandia Mountain Coali- tion, the Bernalillo County Board, the City of Albu- ‘querque, and Senator Domenic.  In onder for the agreement to be permanently in effect, the Congress must ratify it by legislative ac- tion. If Congress does not ratify this agreement by November 15, 2002, it will become void, and the De~ partment of Interior will resurvey the Pueblo bound try as directed by the District Court.  ‘Senator ingaman has moved this issue into the ‘Congress by offering Senate Bill # 2018. There has been considerable negotiation surrounding the terms Of the Senate Bill. At preset, all patics are in ‘agreement with the points included inthe Bill except for three of the four points listed inthe Board Resol- tion (Resolution # 3 is moot since the Pueblo recently ‘purchased the Piedra Lisa Tract).  Since the passage of the Board Resolutoa, there hhas been little progress toward resolving these fe- ‘maining three issues. At the time of writing this at- cl, it appears that Senator Domenici's office does ‘not wish to consider further changes in the Bil  ‘Without resolution of these remaining issues, the Pueblo will not support the Bill, and itis not likely thatthe Bill will be voted upon in the Senate  ‘Senator Bingaman should be commended for his efforts to bring this matter to closure, If the Congress ‘docs not pass Senate Bill #2018, all of the work done bby the parties to ths effort will have gone for naught. ‘The Pucblo of Sandia, the County of Bemalillo, the Sandia Peak Tram Company, the County of Sandoval, the Sandia Mountain Coalition, and the Sandia Heights Homeowners’ Association have ‘acted, individually and together, wo bring this agree- meat 1 ial mages: No oe wishes forthe No- vember 15, deadline to pass without Congressional Jepisiaton to settle the dispute. By our Board Resoli- tion, The SHHA Board of Directos strongly urged Senator Domenic to join with Senator Bingaman and resolve these fal issues and to make this legislation  ‘If members want more information on the issues, they can contact the SHHA office. | will respond di. reetly to any requests.  7  G  An Alarming Situation By Raps Roop  c))  Several years ago, my brother retired early sd moved in with my parents to help them ‘ut as both were geting a it show” in thee 90's. My far managed to mes p his ‘ances monthly and ny mother tended to do things like leaving a pot onto boil unit ‘an dy. They were geting abit dangerous to thersclves Both my pares became a unstable” on thei fect and had many falls ‘when they got up at night to go tothe bath- oom. They werent easy to pck up. My tothe asked me (owing that | was an clevtical engineerin esearch) whether ‘there was an cay way to dete that one of ‘my parents had goin out of bed at night 50 he could assist homer 1 sid tat there was avery easy way. Radio Shock sll anita ‘ed alarm that detects mation. Coupled with 4 12-vlt power supply anda 12-volt alam (also sold by Radio Shack), total cos about 40, an aimed atthe ara towards the bath ‘oom, this system will detec hata person hus gotten out of bed and wil end an slam. {ent fora visit and installed the system, and it worked like charm.  {Ihave an indoor garden (in an atrium) and iy cals started to use it a a wonderful liter box. I installed a similar sysicm that de- tected intrusion into the garden, with rather loud alarm mounted within the garden. It ‘uickly cured the eats of trying to se it for their “busines”.  {Ifyou have problems similar to this, 1 would bbe pleased to show you what to buy and how tohookit all up, Just give me a call at 28 3938,  orvices would like to t  nk the Sandia Heights Community for the generous and  Sandia § thoughtful gifts given to the sanitation and security staff, Sandia Heights Security is a division of Sandia Services. To sign up for security service please call John Pickering at 856-6547.  (erinrnnt Go nn ropresent an cedoracment by SHA ors oer]  ‘THE STOFAC TEAM SELLS.  _BliteHomes sw:  Victoria 8. Smidt M.S., CCOSLP 4217 Montgomery Blod. NE. Albuquerqive, New Mexico 87109 (605) 830.2880 Fax (505) 830-4400  PREMIER SERVICE: Repairs & Maintenance  Fat - Reale - Reasonable LLowmsed -Innred = Bonded ‘ree Exams!  4  Our “Target” is your “satisfaction”  Are You Living Your Best Life? Suppor» Sctre Tool» Iaight Calenge = Acoma » Nato Celetration* Pmcoaragement + owet Feedback  Sigrid Gustafson, CPC Personal and Professional Coach  Call fora hal tour sample coaching session ‘5 8561680 Fan 50-856 9854 ‘eal: signdg@ix nto com  Sandia Environmental Designs Landscape Design & Consultations Cleanup & Hauling  Dan Cauditlo (505) 856-6617  INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT  RETIREMENT PLANNING WORKSHOPS PACE 1 ONE  JEVERY WEDNESDAY MORNING @ 8:15 AM  ‘Seplember- October 2003)  Pages  oF  REMODELING  Sandia Heights ‘Sharon MeCotlam  tin (08) 888.4390  Sorted  Church ofthe Good Shepherd, ‘Unite Church of Christ TED Tennyson NE ‘56-1008 Sunday Saves 8308 103008 Gave nat Mary YODA Sune Sirey Sate (oe Az) 0A  anes, ha Rate, eS oe WieYe Resin Peco  epitew cogmuceadacrg  EN AND  4.5¢ per minute long distance! 24 hours @ doy - 7 days weak  Romie Strin se wi 0  1 Kitchens « Bathrooms « Home Additions Féhipdclingmadecasy <o 883-4040  Visit One of New Mexico's Largest | ___ Kitchen & Bath Showrooms  2426 Washington NE @ biks.5. of Menaul)  “4, Linda Caldwell, cs, ont  Sandia Presbyterian Church  11910 Del Rey NE Abuguorqu, NM. 87122 (608) 256-239  JEFF SPECK, C.G..  JADEnterprises Ine. Design & Construction  ‘Thomas Smict Tax, Estate & Business Law "2217 Montgomery NE ‘Nuquerque, NM 87109  Tom Smit, attomey, wishes o thank ao hs Sandia  Heights chet neighbor for thi suport an reer ‘ver he past 25 yeas  Fax 505-690-4400  Holiday Lights in the Heights  The second annual Light in the Heights is getting ‘under way. This project of the Community Service And Membership Commitee ofthe SHIA celebrates the holiday scason in Sandia Heighs with electric Ihmminaria” Electric huminara sets at you sce clsewhere at the real price of $200Set.will be available to SH residents atthe wholesale price of ‘$15.25 plas tax fora total of $13,964  There are ten huminaria i set, covering thir feet. Made in New Mexico, they have plastic niframes, allwesther plastic bags, and 7-watt candle-shaped bulbs. They come with insructions and diagrams We will also include a few hist sbout attaching them to stucco, since that is not always obvious. Do you have a int that you'd be wiling to shure? Send {eto usand we'll inclode it.  Sendia Heights resident Kit Anderton, a professional ‘organizer, bas voluntcered again to organize this project She will purchase electric huminaria sets hrough her company, Anderson Organizing Systems, paising along the wholesale price to SH residents (adding only the required tx). Her Ipusband Lary will compile the information on staching and Wisplaying the lominaria, The Andersons and other voluntoers will pick up the pre erdered and pre-paid Iuminara ses and have them available for pick-up at the SHHA office from 9:00am to 1:00pm on two Saturdays, November 30th and December 7h.  ‘New this year: Luminaria set-up partis. Get ouside on Saturday afterooa, December 7th, and get your Nminaria installed with your neighbors. Say Ti and Happy Holidays. Help each other. Share some vwastal when you're done.  To order electric uminaria at the wholesale price, lip and mail to Anderson Organizing Systems, 180 Whitatail Road, NE, Albuquerque 87122- 1921. Deadline for receipt of order and eheck Is October 31, 2002. If you miss the deadline, try gain next yar  Address Phone number  1 would ike to order  @ S13.96/set which includes tx  sets of luminaria  My check #__ Organizing Systems, Tor S the numberof sets) is enclosed  made out to Andersoa, (81396 x  _I've enclosed ideas or experience for attaching ‘oF displaying eletrc lumina  __I have « tuck, SUV o other similar vehicle, and would be willing to help pick up cases-o! Tuminaria sets during business hours on he week of [November 25th, Pleat cll me.  __1 amive are willing to help give out uminaria Sets at the SHHA office on November 30 of December 7. Please cll me  | have a way to add something to this project. Pease call me to tak about it  (eau Page 7  September - October 2007  Security’s mobile number  263-4654  Sesstwtersedy  ' ° ' ° ° ° ° 2 1 ‘ . ‘ ‘  gheshebotsece-2  Sandia Heights Security and Sandia Heights Sewvices are not in anyway a part of Sandia Heights Homeowners ‘Associaton. Both ofthese companies provided important ‘services tothe residents of Sandia Height, and Sand Heights Services is paid, under a contract with SHHA, to collect the monthly membership fe withthe wilt bil Ifyou are not helping pay forthe security provided by ‘Sandia Heights Security we urge you to call Jackie at 857-8924 and join up, their service does help protect all Sandia Heights residents  fhe Grit ~ &  ANNOUNCMENTS  ‘St Chad's Fpiscopal Church 711 Tennyson NE Albuocrgue NM $56.9200 (Child Cae Availabe Sundey Morning Sunday & Weekday Programs for Children, Teens, & Ado  Call or ei fo information stchaearthlink net nap home carink netschads  lia Presbyterian Church  10704 Paso dl Norte, NE  Abuguerga, NM 87122 as5000  1008 tough 1027 in November (every ld who signs up wil be on team) Practiee: ia December Cont $80.00 pe ils  Adult Ministries  College & Career, Singles, Couples, Sunday moring  ta mech clas, Sal group mires. Alp  Series Bibl tds, Family Lie classes, cue il festa  Huge Rummage Sale Saturday November 2“ ‘SAM-1PM.  Church of the Good Shepherd Preschool 7434 Tennyson StNE Tramway to Tramway Temace(W) Atd-Way Stop go (N) onto Tennyson St. (Church ison the Right  Covenant Review/Revision Committee rank Soper — Chair  In response to our request for volunteers we are pleased that 11 of your neighbors have joined the ad hoc committe for covenant revision and are working. hard on our inital efforts. Without the help of these people the task we have undertaken would probably be overwhelming. am confident thatthe dedication and positive attitude of our committee, with the support of the SHA membership, will result in covenants, which are both enforecable and ‘understood by all residents. Our main goal is to have “user friendly” covenants, which benefit each Sandia “lights resident and lot owner.  ‘We anticipate that by the March 2003 Board of Directors meeting we will have developed thee sets of Model Covenants and identified revisions necessary for condensing the 35 sets of covenants hich now exist. AS soon as the above plan results hhave been reviewed and accepted by the Board of Directors, it will be presented to the membership.  By far the most controversial statement, which appears in every set of covenants, thereby creating setious problems for the Board members responsible for review ofall ‘construction, i the phrase “not in HARMONY with the surroundings or adjcent structures". This continues 10 <reate discord among the residents and consultants due to ‘our perception of this vague wording. Such factors 1 our background, ining, philosophies, et. ‘contribute to the widely varying interpretation ofthis clusive/subjective phrase. That which is agreeable to the nature of on is many times contrary to the nature fof another. We feel that a top priority matt be replacement of this part ofthe covenants to eine the problem, while assuring the welfare of all residents,  ‘We hope that each SHHA member will make a special effort to provide your input to the committee fof any thoughts you have regarding the above problem, enforceability, obsolescence or a need for now subjects to be included. Please call or e-mail the SHHA office if you wish to give us guidance. WE. ‘WILL LISTEN!  feca  oe  Parks and New Development Committee George Connor = Chair  Itis getting closer!!!  arller this summer, SHHA pledged $19,000.00 from the SHIHA Parks and Open Space Reserve to ‘Bernalillo County to jump start the design and ‘onstruction of the park planned forthe undeveloped land purchased for a park at the intersection of Tramway Boulevard and Cedar Vill Road.  Bob Christman, the volunteer who has worked years this projec, has been expending great effort to keep this projet! moving. Because of his bard work SHHA has received an offer from BPLW Architects & Engineers, Inc. to donate Landscape Design and Civil Engineering services for this park to SHEA. SHEA then could donate these services t0 the County as part of its support fr this project.  ‘This offer will be presented to the Board of Directors a its October mesting since the Board must approve the acceptance of the offer and the subsequent donation tothe County  The acceptance of the offer and subsequent onation of the service to the County will release additonal funds for construction of the Park  In their proposal BPLW states they will want to Imect with SHHA representative and the County to address the design of the park. “This offer by BPLW is very generous and much appreciated by this ‘Commitee and the SHHA Board,  ‘Another step forward is the fact thatthe county will be requesting more Capital Improvement Program funds forthe park fom the State Legislators this yess.  Ifyou are not a member of SHHA you are not helping with projects like these, call the office and join today. 797-7793  September= Octbe 3003  8 se rawr SANoHA HEIOHTS ‘oanergue Na! B22 Prone 670.788 epageandcamcnnes oo were ‘Sonratee rok hon, Chale ‘SA oes 29,San ats NE ‘Senoe Hegre mse Fy  Oss Bob Franis Preside Ruth Fri, Vice Pres ‘Scott Froerck, Secretary ‘Rick Nekon, Trent Chery ern, Assiant Seoretary/Treasurer Members Mask Bosiough Dick Bracket Jake Chaver George Connor ‘in Cook Richard Frederiksca Tay Graber Tim Hale Chock McLeod A Payne Rip Redo ema Sch Jay Seowery Frank Soper Wendy Wells  Jack Wolfe  EXPERIENCED 16 YEAR ‘OLD BABYSITTER Great with kids Available ar school ‘and on weckends Call $21-0482 and ask for Becky  BOULDERS WANTED ‘Any size! Ifyou need to remove boulders call Doug Flax - 858-406  14 YEAR OLD BOY With Boy Scout Training and 11 YEAR OLD SISTER ‘Available for babysiting and house sitting Contact Patriek oF Calisa ‘ALBS6-1283  Wanted: Person to do odd jobs Must have pick-up truck Call Doug 858.3406  Responsible 16 year old Will babysit and ear for  ‘Your children Evenings weekends Call Heather 796-0601  FQUIPMENT FOR SALE Leaving New Mexico, Selling all  my cabinet shop quality wood ‘working equipment and other items ‘astin 856-7833  The monthly SHHA Board of Directors Mectin  EXPERIENCED 14 YEAR ‘OLD WORKER Good for doing odd jobs around the house while you ar away ‘Watering, picking up mail, taking care of pets and’ MUCH MORE Call 856-1485 and ask for Jord  WANTED Another female runner for 3-4 miles, easy pace in Sandia Heights Area Call Kippar after 2pm 858-3406  RETIRED HOSPICE NURSE Sandia Heights Resident with super references available for House Sitting and Pet Care Call Anne - 856-6896  NEW RESIDENTS  to Sandia Heights wish to meet  (Other non-smoking couples for ‘board game nights. Doug. 858-3406  Petcare, House care, & Mabysitting Sandia Heights resident available 10 care for your pet or house and baby-sitting to. Contact Moly at 1856-1275 ater 10:00 am  at 7:00 PM andi  at The William Sibrava Sheriff's Substation  A.S.A.P. Mortgage Inc.  Salvador E.Chaver Michele Marie  Mab $03 9344682 Mobil 50823  Se habla epanot Rates 2 Weessbeipyou Exceent tine 1 refinance  we VAUGHAN  RO coum neactons  FREE Market Analysis RSS one $05 8888028  om nnn as Sag  HIS AND HERS BUSINESS HE DOES:  -WINDOW WASHING -UPHOLSTE > 822-9280 |-HANDYMAN WORK — 30 YRS. E ‘  Streepeenespions RELIABLE - REASONABLE . service jewelry repairs. 286-7575  104 04min ted At? ob Pot  Now ites Long Tar Ca pct  ZB [DIAMONDS FINE JEWELRY-ART  GE Financial Assurance  FREE CLASSIFIED ADS FOR MEMBER'S CHILDREN To place an ad for member's children please call the SHHA office at 75 of the ad to: SHHA@sandiahomeowners.org. Office hours are LLAM-3PM Monday through Friday.  93 oF send a text copy  The Gat Page #5 ‘Seplember- October 200: WINDOW CLEANING  baquerqes, NM 87111 ast of Wyoming near Target  Free Botimates & Guaranteed Work  Call 275-2758 |  we or Roof Replacement Heating, & Cooling, The EX-EL Compa ‘Where Ex-Elence sential” 244-3935 Free Estimates “BBB Gold Star Me -30 Yrs. Experience -20 Yr. Warranty Availabld  (Comcast  rt Korman  From the Indian Art fo You  eS oT Fall/Winter Yard Cleanup By Daa Calo  “48 4 1d ’ Al. go o® X 6  ‘What is Fall/Winter Clean Up?  Fall and winter cleanup involves trimming tees, shrubs and perennial as wells aking and dispos- ing ofthe debris. Tiss done daring the non- growing season, which runs from about mid-October ‘rough April. This is an idea time because heavy trimming of plans is not advantageous during the ‘growing and blooming periods of spring and sum  Benefits of Fall/Winter Cleanup  ne immediate effet of allie cleanup i neat ~ yard were unsightly old plant growths removed. Fire danger is rece when dead plant tral as ‘ot been allowed to accurmlate around the propery. Many plants actully benefit greatly by pring back ld growth, Controlling exesive plant growth ‘makes the garden safe. And because plans are pruned during the dormant season, thre i eas plant Stress Be sure avoid pring early season flower- ing shrubs such as fosythi ile, Wisteria and snowball. They should be pred after they bloom in Spring but no late han eal uly  How to Prune Your Plants  Whether you decide t do your dormastseson trimming in mid-October, January or wat wl Apel is early upto you. You may algo decide to rim leat a tie over the couse of the dormant season.  Fins, tim perennials and native grasses all the way to the ground. Next year's growth wil emerge fom the roots and not from the stems as with shrubs and vines. An exception to this ule is evergreen peren- nls such as eandytu, pineleaf penstemon, and ‘germander. They should have old flower stalks re- ‘moved only. Cutting perennials and native grasses is  done with a weedestr or grass shears depending ‘upon the sizeof the area In Sandia Heighes, this usually means using a Weedeater.  ‘Next, rim deciduous and evergreen shrubs and Vines. Prune decidvous shrubs to remove lst year's ‘ower stalks I last year’s growth was to exces- sive, you can usually prune the plans a bit heavier ~ ‘specially for chamisa and Russian sage.  Evergreen shrubs can be pruned to shape and vines should be pruned to shape the plant and to control growth in desired direction, This is also a great time tote vines ona trellis, fence ovine supports prior to next season's growth. Plans like cherry sage fare considered pereonials but in Albuquerque their _rowth habit is like that of deiduous shrub. So, ‘raning itll the way tothe ground (as you would ‘normally do with perennials) would probably kill ‘his plant. Ii important to know the plan types in ‘your yard and ther growth habit and tolerances. ‘Most shrub and vine trimming chores canbe tackled With aloppe, hedge trimmer, hand pruners and ‘occasionally a handsaw. Wear gloves and be sure yur tols are sharp and in good working order.  "Now on tothe trees. Be sure to remove dead wood, any erant growing branches, or any excessive growth. The dormant season isan ideal time for heavier pruning of trees asthe ‘shock’ to them is limited. Evergreen tees have a slower growth period in winter but do not go ally dormant, 0 limit your pruning to light shaping and dead wood removal ‘Understanding the growth habits and tolerances of ‘your tees will help avoid costly mistakes.  Lastly, rake the area and dispose of all debris ina ttashcan or trash bags. f you havea truck, disposal will go faster as branches will not have to be eut to {tthe container. When loading your truck you should have the light materials loaded frst (grasses, leaves, and perennials), then smal to medium ‘branches next, and finally larger branches to hold ‘down the load. Tie down load and use tarp. Be sure ‘your load is steady. The closest dump isthe Eagle Rock Dump, which you can reach by going weston ‘Paseo del Norte and taking aright on Louisana and then left on Eagle Rock. This dump is open 7 days a week from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM and the charge is $8335 for residential customers,  The Gat  is ember October Gardener's Calendar By Dan Candillo  Early October  % Las chance to complet lndscape installations > Hummingbirds begin thei fall southern) migra- tion but keep those hummingbird feeders full for any stragglers  > Time to change swamp coolers over w furnace heat  > Check out the selection of coo! season annuals to plant now ~ pansies, mums, primroses, snap- dragons, omamental Kale and more.  ‘Mid October  > Balloon Fiesta time is hee.  > Plan a day trip to sce the aspens turing yellow inthe mountains and maples tuning red i the Manzanos.|  Harvest tomatoes before the fst freezes. Put sreen tomatoes in a sunny Window to ripen.  Last chance to plant peony.  ‘This is an optimum time to plant bubs before  the ground freezes and selection becomes poor.  lant various bulbs such as tulips, daffodils, ero-  ‘cs, hyacinths and paper whites.  Late October  > The first killing frosts usually arve by now. If 0, cut back on frequency and water later in the day such us 9:00 o 10:00 A.M.  > Ifyou have an outdoor pond, shut off the pump ‘and remove it $0 that freezing doesn’t damage.  > Halloween is Thursday, October 31st. For a really spooky experince, visit 2744 Tramway Circle forthe best Halloween set-ap.  > Whats blooming in October? Abela, roses, and Raassian sage (shrubs); Cherry sage, coral bells, hummingbird trumpet, maximillan sunflower, ‘mountain aster, bedding asters, re valerian, and ‘Mexican evening primrose (perennials) Listris sod canna lily (bulbs); Dianthus, sapdagons, ppensy, omamental Kale, and English primrose  vy  Early November  >This isa great time wo bogin your fall/winter ‘ren cleanup. Cut perennials othe ground, shape evergreen and deciduous shrubs, and re fallen debris (se the Fall Winter Cleanup artile inthis issue)  > Cota fiebreak around your house by trimming drm gases fo the ground and removing flammable materials 20 fee away fom the house or other stuctures.  > Time to feed lawn and other outdoor plans with swinorizer fertilizer  > Sct wae ies to the deepest part of he pond to prevent them from feezing  Mis November ‘Begin o force indoor bulbs such s paper ‘whites, nerisus, and amaryl for Christmas ‘looms!  > Prop vegetable beds forthe 2003 planting season by rooting organic mulches and ferilizes ito the si If you do this ary the mulches have several months to compost  > We arenerng the coldest part ofthe yur, s0 Set imigation timers to water once a week or less tnd be sure to begin watering about 1:00 A.M.  Late November  > Place og into your pond s tha the fish can fact omgen Sto feeding fish util waemer ‘weather  > Fill your birdbath diy 0 that birds have 8 con- stant source of wate.  > This a great time to begin your Christmas shopping to avoid the crowds.  me  Treasurers Report, ii Nein, ressrer Jaly 1, 2002 ~ September 30,2002, ‘made a combined report to show a better  picture of inflow and outflow.  ‘Cash Flow  Inflow  ace  Inter  “Members Dues ‘Totalioflee __ 523,738.50  Outflow  $400.00  ‘Commitee Expense Ward, reat meeting room Expense Lite Grit? Expense Grit  Finance Commitee  ‘Trai & Safety ~ dog mens signs Insurance  ‘General Lability-Property Directors Officers Umbrella  Lent Portion will be paid by Insurance  Office expense  Bank Charges  ‘Clean Supplies  ‘Computer Lease Electrielty  ‘Comcast ~taternet Service Mileage to sta  Office Lease  Postage Meter Rent-6 months Repair/replacements Security|  Telephone 50831 Office Statt 702417 Sandia Service Collection of Dues L885.  1037 2,692.80 13092 9813 18743,  29 ‘Outflow over Inflow {shortage from reservel [9.38479]  NOTE: We work on a cash bass this report shows the ‘actual flow of cash, All ils recelved by September 30° ‘were paid and are reflected in this report. There is one ‘aception, our insurance company has agreed to cover the defense cost of an ongoing action against SHELA, so ‘S8\1S3.48 of the shown legal defense expense will not be ‘aid until iti determined what portion they will pay.  ‘Total Assesty _$.63475.08 Liabilities  Pledged Open Space Reserve $19,000.00 Legal Reserve 15,000.00  "The Finance Committee h  irked hard to arrive ata budget to meet the known needs of SHHA.  ‘This will be presented tothe Board of Directors for approval at the October BOD meeting.  ‘We will publish ite Grit the last part of October with the new budget and our rational for you to go over. ‘We hope you will read it and make comments, you may do so by phone, fax or email othe office, oF come to the November Board meeting and give us your Ideas. ‘Any needed adjustments will be made at the Boards December meeting. The Budget year will start 1/1/03.  eon Pag  ‘September - October 2003]  91 RE-CZLL8 WN anDwa:  aN am  a1 1H tf DesSSMUIAseeessssessseceeee  600  wn 'anowanone ty Suc# LNAI  Give aovisod ‘S10 ‘ais Galwosaue  Sandia Heights Wildflower Club Patio Supper in September was wel attended by the club ‘members as well as Sandia Heights’ residents Many thanks to Peggy and Al Owens for bosting  Speaker: Betty Chowning Location: Home of Peggy Atencio and Don DeGasperi, 975 Antelope NE  Al  anda Heights residents are welcome to  DVI RPE  damiy  Ne wHot  1u9}903.105 30u Sy 1-6  encom VS you stingy mca SEURCOROH AL OPS,  Ee  Betty Chowning isa Master Gardener, Accredited Flower Show Judge, and Instructor of Tkebana. She will demonstrate the steps she uses to create omaments from the wild gourds found all over Sandia Heights. She will bring several of her finished  ‘ornaments to illustrate the final stage  inthe members for any ofthe events.  ‘To become a member, please senda check forthe annual membership fee of $5 payable tothe Sandia Heights Wildflower Chub to Susan Cook, 1842 Tramway Terrace Lp Albuquerque, NM 712210 cover  dives for one year. 