THE  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  2002 Annual Report Issue  May-June 2002  ‘SHHA Annual Meeting - 10:00 AM Saturday June 1, 2002 Church of the Good Shepherd 7834 Tennyson NE  All SHHA Members and Sandia Heights resi-  ddonts are invited to attend the Anal Meeting  this Saturday. SHHA Members will be electing tothe SHILA Board of Directors,  Inside this issue ofthe Grit, you'll find the 2002  Annual Meetin  cach candidate  Insert with the statements from the Board of Directors posi-  Most SHHA Members want to participate in electing the people who will serve on the SHHA Board of Directors and represent thei interests However, not every Member who wants to vote is always able to attend the Annual Meeting. Starting this year, every SHHA Member who ‘would like t6 vote will have an opportunity to do so evenif they are notable to ated the Annual Meeting  Ballots for the election of new SHHA Directors will be available in the SHHA office during normal office hours (11:00AM to 3:00PM) Tuesday, May 28 through Friday, May 31 for any SHHA Member who is not able to attend the Annual Meeting, Remember, only SHHA Mem: bers are eligible to vote. Ifyou would lke to be- come an SHIA Member in order to vote in this  year’s election, you can sign up at the SHHA Office anytime through May 31  The SHIA and its Board of Directors represent the interests of all Sandia Heights homeowners, property owners, and residents in many ways. ‘Your participation in the SHH is very impor- tant. We encourage you to attend the Annual Meeting, become an SHITA Member, exercise ‘Your right to vote and volunteer your time for SHEA Committees and activities that an tant to you.  Because of the extreme fire danger this year,  we've invited Mr. Kent Hendrickson, the Berna lilo County Fire Marshall to be @ guest speaker atthe meeti  ‘We'll also be presenting information on many different topics including’ ‘© Status of the Bylaw revisions ‘+ Sandia Mountain Resolution + Committee activities & accomplishments ‘Covenant Enforcement legal update  General discussion on topies 0  Please attend. Your participation is important  Sandia Heights — The Peak of Living! Traffic & Safety Committee 2002 Annual Report Bric Nuttall, Chair  i  THANK YOU tol the committee members, volun- ‘crs, staff, and county employees for providing ‘many hours of your time to making Sandia Heights « safer, better community during this pat year  ROADS: Please remember that our roads are shared ‘Vehicles, walkers, children, bikers, ad joggers all must use the same narrow, hilly, winding roads, thence, both drivers and pedestrans must we extreme ‘caution. This shared nature of cur narrow hilly roads ‘necenitates what seems to some residents the rather slow posted speed limits. Sandia Heights speed lim- its and traffic signs have been reviewed this past year by the County Traffic Engincer’s Office and ae cor- rectly posted. Each year we have more children and walkers as wel as Vehicles using our roads. The Traf- fic and Safety Commits has studied the many facet ofthis shared use conflict. There is no single simple soltion!  (On the traffic side we have worked closely with the County to get an approved 15 mph speed hump de- ‘sign, measurement of traffic speeds and volume on several of our roads, and increased sheriff patrols and speeder ticketing to name a few activities. Fr the walkers, we have worked with the County t0 wie ‘Chamisa, elms and other vegetation thus providing ‘more road shoulder access. Several new stop signs and speed limit signs have been installed. The Comn- miter has writen numerous Grit articles to educate residents about the problems of our shared roads as well as security issues.  The Commitee is also studying the feasibility of ‘atural pathways within the Count right-of-way The Traffic and Safety committee will pursue this Pilot initiative in the coming year. We encourage those interested to contact the Sandia Heights Home ‘owners Association and pet involved in this exciting Project.  There  SECURITY: Since the tragedy of 9/11, we ae all sare that terrorism, vandalism, burglaries, and other <rimes are on the rise in America and within our ‘communities. The Traffic and Safety Committe is studying these important issues and is trying to iden tify imovative methods to make our wonderful community safer. Your help and input is needed to ‘dentify the best approaches. The Commie is work- ing closely withthe Sheriff's office on this initiative.  Architectural Control Committee 2002 Annual Report Sohn M. Coffey, Chait  ‘The Architectural Control Committee met 20 ines ia the last year. 127 applications were considered, and 119 approved, for a 94% approval. 3 variance re- quest were considered and I approved, fora 33% approval  Several thrusts were accomplished through the year Sandia Heights resident awareness ofthe committee has increased appreciably, including the positive at ‘nde of the Committe toward change and variety ‘within covenant limits. Architects, builders, and real tors have also become aware of Committe policies ‘nd guidelines The committe has stressed its char- ‘ered role to safeguard the character of Sandia Heights,  ‘The Committe intends to continue its chartered functions, and invites comments from residents Residents are always welcome to meet with the Committee with prior notice  Parks, New Development, & Government Relations Committee  2002 Annual Report George Connor, Chait  eat  The Parks Committee as been busy this year, but not al ofthe items on which we worked are finshed and show. The completed tems are  ‘© Arranged to have Chamisa trimmed along Tramway Trail at all intersections w improve pedestrian safety “Arranged to have Chamisa and shrubs trimmed along Tramway Trail making it eas- Jer to see the Wrought Iron work long the arroyo about 1/3 mile south of Circe K Bought and planted four (4) shade tees in Little Cloud Park at San Bernardino and Tramway, Developed a set of Commitee Goals and Objectives to help improve the year-to-year ‘workings ofthe Parks Commit. Developed a set of Committe Operating Procedures to help the Parks Commits i ‘eract smoothly with other SHHA commit- tees and the SHHA Board of Directors.  ‘Ongoing activites are  ‘© Succoeded in getting the 10.7 acres of vacant land at Pasco Del Nort and Tramway Blvd ‘nto Bernalillo County list of potential Open Space acquisitions.  ‘Stared efforts to discuss National Forest ae- cess with neighbors adjacent to Cibola For ‘es Intent ito find one oF more ideas and solutions that wil reduce or eliminate tes- passing problems residents have had and im prove access for residents not living directly on the forest boundary  ‘We expect the ongoing activities to be multi-year projects.  ree  President’s Letter Don Aunapu, SHHA President  Farewell tothe Sar  Heights Homeowners.  Just a short farewell note from your departing Sandia Heights Homeowners Association (SHHA) Presi- ‘deat. It shard to believe that it was six years ago that I became 2 member ofthe SHHA Board of Di- recors (BOD). Time really fies here in Albuguer- qe. I must admit that at times it was a challenge, bat ‘Overall it was itereting and I had the opportunity ‘and te pleasure to meet and work with alt of really {good people. ask that all of you in Sandia Heights ‘continue to support your BOD and if you have the time, offer them your assistance. We ean never have too many good people working to improve our ‘neighborhood. The board members work hard and I ‘Know that at times they make mistakes. So do 1. One ‘thing I can guarantee yoa is that 95% ofthe time, ‘everyone of them do what helshe fees isthe best for the entre membership. truly believe they have done ‘an outstanding job. departing 1 want to thank the cetire SHHA BOD for ther excellent suppor during the past year and thank you for leting me serve you for the past 6 years  Don: From all the Board and member- ship, a sincere Thank You for your years of service and dedication to keep ‘Sandia Heights the best of the  best!  Tat  Tay Tone 300  Community Service & Membership Committee 2002 Annual Report Finian Murphy, Chair  ‘Community Service and Membership Committee (CSMC) has been a very active group during this past year. Our approach tothe assignment given this. ommitee has led us to seck ou those who ae im portant o ou long-tem efforts at ereating 2 !ighborhood community where all will benefit rom hhaving an opportunity to live here.  ‘As acommite, we have atempted 1 each out to ‘ur neighbors, to non-members and members alike, and to new members, to establish relationships with ‘ar local and national political representatives, and to become an organization committed o developing close ties tothe community it represents. We fostered relationships with those residential and commercial ‘populations living and working nearby, and joined ‘with the Pueblo of Sandia to forge long-term bonds ‘of mutual support, cooperation, and fiendship,  ‘The members ofthe CSMC along with the whole Sandia Heights Homeowners Associaton (SHIA) Board have performed many services and provided Important eeative efforts at improving the envion- ‘ment we lve in, herein Sandia Heights. Much ofthis work goes unheralded, and even unknown  {In the coming year we plant expand our efforts ‘creating a more representative Board of Directors We will continue the efforts undertaken during this past year to bring the Board into closer contact with the community that it represents  ‘The goal isto establish a more representative body of ‘Board members, to make a connection between each individual Board member and a specific neighboe- hhood constituency, and to cause Board members o be sensitive and ated to the issues  Some of CSMC's specific endeavors this past year:  Instead of having a “Coffee” ata Board Member's house, CSMC decided to have “New Member Get Together" mectngs inthe evening at the SHHA of- fice. All new resident and new members were sent individual invitations. Those who attended enjoyed ‘meeting other new residents and leaming more about Sandia Heights and the SHIA.  {In August, the CSMC responded to an invitation from the Sandia Pueblo to meet with their representative to «iscuss ways of developing good neighborly rela- tions. The outcome ofthis mecting was a mecting of the SHHA Board of Directors with the Sandia Tribal CCoanelin October. At tht time, the Board of Direc- tore was apprised ofthe Sandia Pueblo's concerns regarding its Boundary Claim. CSMC subsequcnly received Board approval to investigate all sides of this issue. CSMC felt thatthe future settlement, oF non-setiement, ofthis claim would impact all of Sandia Height. After studying all aspects ofthis con- twoversy, the Committee recommended thatthe Board take a stand onthe speedy resolution of this issue. (CSMC believed that SHIIA's main goal should be to encourage the complete resolution ofthis isue before the deadline for this settlement expired It also be- lieved that all those involved in negotiating a setle- ‘ment should be aware that SHHA was not opposed to ‘whatever setdement had been negotiated, or would be further negotiated, by the interested parties.  ‘Our Annual Wine Tasting party was expanded t in- clude specialty coffees and chais. A souvenir wine las, or coffee cup, with the Sandia Height logo on it was given to each participant. Ths year over 170 residents attended. Although this eveit has not een a ‘major fund raiser (it normally just breaks even finan-  ily), this coming year CSM will expore the pos- sibility of tuming it into a fundraising event for some ood charity  Fireworks and Fire By Jim Cook Inthis year of extreme drought and fire danger, Please consider celebrating the 4 of July without fireworks. Fach year fireworks arc the source of| ‘many fires and a fire this yar could be very danger-  at are important ‘us. Sandia Pueblo has informed the SHHA that they to their constituents, ‘would not be selling fireworks this year and would be refusing requests for others to sell fireworks on Poeble land. The oa  Way one 302  Linda Caldwell, crs, Gri FREE Market Analysis SISERT “aac bee mate (50) SSO  ‘Church ofthe Good Shepherd, ‘Sandia Presbyterian Church ‘United Charch of Chet 1704 Paes es Nate NE, 6-008)  7234 Tennyson ME ome fw or Worst! sse-o00 Jf *  sey Secs 8208 10304 ur Sod ey ME sare Sony Seri hah 800M  nap Pam cops corp  4.50 per minute long distance! 2 eri  ae ; splat  24 hours a day - 7 days a week! 5 aa NE  a2  JEFF, CGR,  nec  JADEnlrrises the Deiat Can)iesion ncest vert  Thomas Smictil ‘Tax, Estat & Business Law "217 Montgomery NE Aloaquerg, Na 87100 Kitchens + Bathrooms « Home Additions Ton Sih tory eo ar tee Santa (ihigdelingmadeeasy.<om eights con noigors tor Pas supp ond rere  Lan ‘Kitchen & Bath Showrooms 83022 Fax sos. 030-4400  2426 Washington NE @2biks 5, of Menaul)  REMODELING  Team Paes Way ne 2000  Sandia Services would Tike to thank the Sandia Heights Community for the generous and ghts Security is a division  ing at 856-0347.  thoughtful gitts given to the sanitation and security staff, Sandia ‘of Sandia Services. To sign up for security service please call John Pick  [Rivenisement Uo not reprscat an ndorsemera by STITA ors offcard  THE STOFAC TEAM SELLS. 3  Enchantment Speech Language Pathology Services, LLC @. 9» __ Victoria S. Smidt M.S., CCCSLP 4217 Montgomery Bled. NE New Mexico 87109 10 Fax (505) 830-4400  Sandia Environmental Designs  Landscape Design & Consultations Cleanup & Hauling  BULL ARTMAN 4 BA (505) 856.6617  INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT RETIREMENT PLANNING WORKSHOPS PACE 1 ONF  JEVERY WEONESDAY MORNING @ 9:15 Am  Designing The Butterfly Theme Garden By Dan Cauillo  [New Mexico is home to many beautiful buerfly species. Swallowtals, Painted Ladies, Sulphues, Hairsreaks, Blues, Monarchs, Friillary and Check rspots ae just afew of the dozens of butertlos wating to visit your yard! Their colorful displays add an extra dimension to your garden as you observe them feed, defend tertoies, and put on courtship Alispays. But before buttrfies will isi, itis neces sary to create an envionment atractive to them,  (Creating a Butterfly Habitat  “The area chosen to tract butterflies canbe a ‘or location as long as itis in a sunny area. This can be either fll wun (a southem exposure) or aftemoon sun (a Wester exposure). Butterflies become most Active when thee body temperatres are 85°F of above It isa good idea to place boulders throughout the garden giving them a place to rest and warm themselves,  ‘Choose 2 locaton thats protected from the wind. Burterflies become les active when i 100 windy, Enclosed courtyards or ares surrounded by tall shrubs and tees greatly reduce the wind velocity  Provide a source of water. Butterflies occasionally drink water and shallow soutees of water are apprecl= ated. You can use birdhaths, rocks with depressions, ‘ora saucer to old water. Dampened sil allows for batteries (particularly Swallowails) to gather to gether in what is known as ‘pudding’. These moist reas have high concentrations of dissolved minerals, Which ae necessary for butterfly heath and repro- diction,  Provide a food source, For adult Buteries, hep mary source of food is nectar aod there are hundreds ‘of common buterfly plants to chose fom. A list (see page 8) of the most exceptional and available buter- fly attracting plants is provided that includes tos, shrubs, vines, perennials and bus, and annuals. To attract even more butterflies or tract certain type oF butierflies to your garden, use plants that provide a  008 source for butterfly larvae (caterpillars). For  cxample, Swallowtail larvae have a particular atc  tionto carts dil, celery anise, fennel and parsley.  Design Hints  1. Before the installation of your butterfly garden, plan it out first on paper to avoid costly mis: fakes.  2. Any butterfly garden should include a varity of plan types (trees, shrubs, perennials, et.) as ‘various buterfly species have a preference for ‘all, medium, or short plants. From a design standpoint, the wie of different plant types is ‘more aesthetically pleasing then just using one ‘ype (i.e. only perennials,  3. Be sure thatthe plants you use will mature 10 the ‘pot other words, do not get a plant that will ‘be too large forthe area, Ifa tee is placed ina small area, you wil crete a maintenance night- mare for yourself since you will be constantly trimming it to kep the plat in check. Consulta tarden dictionary such as Sunst's Wester Gar- den Book or visit your local nursery for plant speificatons.  4, For larger spaces, 1 employ a technique I call “stocking”. Stacking simply means placing taller plas inthe back, medium height plant i the mide and the “shorts” nthe foreground. The ‘depth ofthe planting space will determine how many levels of plants can be used. For example, with five-foot dep planting area, a Buterfly Bush could be planted in the background, a Blve “Mist Sprea would be placed in the middle and @ Gaillard Daisy in the foreground.  5. Tryto use butterfly blooming plants where the Flowers cover the entire growing Season (April to ‘October in Albugueraue) as butterflies are active uring this entire time period. Choose early, mid Season and late blooming plant in your garden rather than choosing plants witha six-month blooming season,  6. The colors selected ae stritly up to you. Whether you like warm colors, cool colors, oF ‘every coloe the choice is entirely your. For me personaly, | Hike to we all colors and this will tundoubtely ateac a greater variety of buter- flies.  7. Be sure to use boulders and provide water in your arden.  8. Avoid using pesticides of any kind in your ga 4en, This includes organic and biological con- trols. I'someone is chewing on your hollyhocks, itjust might be a Painted Lady caterpillar!  Team Pa  Way tone S002]  Butterfly Attracting Plants  siti  Trees: *Vitex (Vitex agnus-castus), *Mimosa (Al- brain, Hoaechestit scala), Plans Ceres rus Ape Mal nd Willows (sain Vines: Japanese Honeysuckle (once japonica) Shrubs: *Buterly Bush (Budde), *Blue Mist Spice Caryopar x candoweni) lc ($y- figs), Texas Prive (Ligutum japonica Tex ‘num, Glomy Attia Abela grand), Manzanita (Arctoxtapy os), Mabonia (Mabon. * Algeria (Berbers), Mock Orange (Phadlphn) Potent (Patentilaftcos) Golden Carat (Res arcu), *Thre-Leat Sumac (Rhus eat), ‘Rosemary (Rosmarings ofinals) Spe (Spires). ‘Fembush(Chamacbatera millet) “CA Fendhebush Fela rpicol), “Chamisa(Chy- sothamaus nauseons), “Dwarf Chamisa (Ch ‘otha depres) Chitose (Cowanin ‘Neomexicana, * Apache Plume (Fall paradox) ‘Utah Servicer (Amelachir saben) and ‘Fas indigo (Amoeba) Perennials and Batbx “Els Lavende (Lavan- dis angustifota) *Cary Plant (licks anges oti), *Sanoina Santon), Yarrow Ache) “Gilad Daisy (Galiarda), Red Valerian (Cen- tran be), “Mexican atl Conelower (sbi columnifer) “Auta Joy Sedum (Sedum “Astra oy). Purple Coneiower (chines pu prea), Black-Eyed Susan (Radbechia), Aster (A= te) Buterlyweed (Ascepias ibeosa, Coreopsis Daisy (Coops Verena (Verbena), Sea Pik (Aremeria marina), Boe Bal (Monod), Pox (Pow), "Goldenrod (Saidago), *Catmint(Nepets ‘masini, Shasta Day (Chyaanthemam macnn), ‘OxcEve Dany (Chrysanthemam lesan) Mints (Menta), Joe-Pye Weed (Catt) Queen Anne's Lace Daves carota, *L ams Ear (Sachys Janata), Dephinium (Deiphinum), Bowles’ Mauve Wallflower (Erysimum linifolium), *Gayfeather (Liatris), Lilies, Chives, Allium, *Daylity (Hemero- call, Obesient Pan (Phyxoneya vipa) Pie ‘ion Flower (Seabina)and Pinks Diath) “Annuats: Lanta, Cosmos, Sulower,Hebtrope, Margo, Snapdrgon Alyssum, Verbena, Zin Agerstu, Penta, Clecme, Stock, Mexican Sunflower, Stace, Alter and Sweet Pea  indicts drought tolerant plants  Covenant Support Committee 2002 Annual Report Frank Soper, Chair  From June 2001 thru April 2002 the Covenant Sup- port Committee (CSC) handled 67 complaints. Our Investigation showed that 58 of those complains. ‘were jusified. Four residents have chosen to continue violations. SHH bas turned over two of these viols- tions to our atiorney and another one will be referred  (Of the 67 complaints received, only tree of the peo ‘ple making complains had talked t the person vio- lating the covenants before filing complaint. This places a large Barden on the CSC. In January the ‘ommitee decided to change our approach. Instead ‘of leitr to the violator, each justified complaint is fits handled via direct coatact with the person violat-  ‘covenant. This has resulted in a significant re~ <duction inthe number of ongoing active violations. ‘The CSC has concladed from these results that residents would approach people violating the cove- nants before fling « complaint many of the problems ‘could be resolved without SHHA involvement.  To better assure buyers’ awareness ofthe covenants pri to purchase the CSC contacted the Board of Realtors and the major brokers active in Sandia Heights requesting thee fll cooperation as a pat of listing a property. The questions we have received from potential residents have shown this to be a ‘worthwhile effort.  ‘The CSC sincerely thanks the residents who have made an effort to help us maintain the quality of i that we enjay and those people who have cooperated ‘withthe SHHA to comply withthe covenants. Please don’t be afaid to discuss a covenant violation ‘problem with your neighbor. We are all legally bound by our covenants.  (eon  Pass  Tay Tone 2002  ist of this year’s Candidates for the Board of Directors aod thet statement, It impor tant as a member ofthe SHH that you take pat in your association by voting for board members. ‘You may vote for your choice one of two ways:  1. Attend the annual meeting of members and fill ut your ballot atthe meeting.  2. Stop by the SHILA office between 11:00 am and 5300 pm May 28 through May 31 and the staff ‘ill provide you a ballot ofl out at that time.  Remember, only SHHA members may vote, and ony  one vote per property  [SSE  Board of Directors Candidate Statements  Jay Cornea Unit 6 Readrunser District  1 am interested in serving o the board am a former business owner, curent business manager, and have worked in the construction intustry in New Mexico {or over 20 years. 1 have served on mamerous Com smittes in foal contractor organizations and am a former member ofthe board of dretors of Four Hil Country Club  >  Pete Foster Unit IN Sandia Distt  {have been a resident of Sandia Heights ann a mem- ber ofthe SHHA since 1977. Now that I'm rtrd, | ‘would lke to serve on the SHA Boar. am a  ‘graduate ofthe U.S. Miltary Acadcay | served ‘an officer inthe U.S. Air Force. From 1962 to I ‘eld several diferent director roles in contracts and ‘operations at Kirlland Ai Force Base  La  Larry Greher Unit 14 Eagle District  1 have tv in Sandi Heights and been a member of the SHA for 23 years, but have never served on the Beard, | am interested in serving on the Board forthe "upcoming term and accepting a committe assign- ‘ment where I could be helpful. | am employed as Senior Attorney at Sandia National Labs, ive served onthe Board and was the Treasurer of our religious organization ~a synagogue, have served on the Board ofthe Jewish Federation of Greater Albu- ‘querue, and am now on the New Mexico regional Burd cf the National Jewish Hospital & Medical Center of Denver, Colorado.  SES  ‘Tio Hale Unit 1S Joniper District  1 am martiod, have thee children and have ive ‘there a litle over S years. Lam an Albuquerque na~ tive, attended the Albuquerque Academy, went off ‘college in Boston, and graduate school there and re- turned, atiending law school here at UNM. | grew up biking the La Laz and enjoying our mountains. 1 ‘woul welcome the opportunity to serve onthe hoard and work to protect and preserve our neighborhood.  > aS——aS>  Chery! Iverson Unit 17 Eagle District  (My hushand and I have tv in Sandia Heights three years this August. We have been New Mexico resi ‘ents for 22 years. Ihave a degree in Marketing and Business and work in industrial sales. We have one ‘daughter who just graduating fom the University ‘of New Mexico. ike the fel ofthe community and {eel strongly about the covenants ant protection for ‘open spaces. | believe we ned 1 get the commsnity ‘more invlved and ston othe community.  aS SSE BOD Candidate Statements continued on reverse  Therm  Resa Nesting eet  Tee]  Following is a list of this year's Candidates for the  ‘Board of Directors and thei statements. It & impor  tant as a member of the SHHA that you take part in  your association by voting foe board members.  ‘You may vote for your choice one of two ways  1. Attend the annual meeting of members and fill (ot your ballot at the meeting  ‘Stop by the SHHA office between 11:00 am and  3:90 pm May 28 through May 31 and the staff  will provide you a ballot wo fill ut at that time.  Remember, only SHHA members may vote, and oaly  ‘one vote per property  SSeS  Board of Directors Candidate Statements  ay Coruzza Unit 6 Roadrunner District,  1 am interested in serving onthe board. Lam a former business owner, current business manager, and have ‘worked in the construction industry in New Mexico for over 20 years Ihave served on numerous com- mites in lea contracior organizations and am a former member ofthe boatd of directors of Four Hill, ‘Country Cub.  LE >>>  Pete Foster Unit IN Sandia District  {have boon resident of Sandia Heights and a mem- ber ofthe SHHA since 1977. Now that I'm reid, | ‘would like to serve onthe SHA Board. am a  graduate of the U.S. Miltary Academy. I served as An icin the U.S. Ait Force. From 1962 10 199 1 held several different director roles in contracts and ‘operations at Killa Air Force Base  aaa  Larry Greher Unit 14 Eagle District  have lived in Sandia Heights and been a member of the SHH for 23 yeas, but have never served on the Board. Iam interested in serving onthe Board fr the ‘upcoming term and accepting «committe assign- ment where I could be helpful. Lam employed as Senior Attorney at Sandia National Labs. I have served on the Board, and was the Treasure of our religious ganization ~a synagogue, have served on the Board of the Jewish Foderation of Greater Albu- querqu, and am now on the New Mexico regional ‘Board ofthe National Fewish Hospital Madical ‘Center of Denver, Colorado.  LS >>  ‘Tim Hale Unit 18 Juniper District  1am married, have thoechilren and have lived there a litle over 5 years. [am an Albuquerque na tive attend the ATbuquerque Academy, went off 10 college in Boston, and graduate school there and re- turned, attending law school here at UNM. | grew up hiking the La Luz and enjoying our mountains. | ‘would welcome the opportunity to serve on the boa and work to protect and preserve our neighborhood.  >  Cheryl Iverson Unit 17 Eagle Distt  "My husband and Ihave lived in Sandia Heights three years this August. We have been New Mexico resi- ‘ents foe 22 years. Rave a degree in Marketing and Business and work in industrial sales. We have one daughter who is just graduating from the University ‘of New Mexico ike the fel ofthe community and {el strongly about the covenants and protection for ‘open spaces. believe we ood to gt the commensty ‘more ivoived and Inten the commit,  PaaS BOD Candidate Statements continued oa reverse  ee, _ rrr ering tse]  Gardner’s Calendar By Dan Cautillo  Early June  ‘Time to prune early season flowering shrubs soch a forythia, ila, Japanese snowball, wistra, and ‘winter jasmine.  + Time to give your garden its second feding with dry fertilizers if your frst feding was in early ‘April or feed every two weeks with Kiqud fertilizer (Goch a Miracle-Gro).  + Local nurseries have the largest variety of plants this month, so now isthe best time to install your landscape.  ‘+ Change timing on your sprinklers and drip system (oreflect the increase in temperatures,  Midtune  ‘© “Deadhead” flowering perennials and annuals to increase flower production  ‘© Check tomatoes and other vegetables for insost damage. Use organic and biological insect controls ‘as safeguard from chemical pesticide poisoning,  ‘Good time to put on granulated fungus control asa preventative for fangusin your lawn,  ‘= Dad's day isthe 16th  Late June  ‘As we approach the hotest month of the year (July) ‘be sue iigation drippers are fully functional and sprinklers havea thorough coverage patter,  + Plant second crop offima beans, beets, broccoli and obra  * Check pinion pines fr pink globs on the trunk and main branches For convo, use an old butter knife to remove pitch to reveal the larval form (worm) of the pitch moth,  + Ragweed is probably the eupeit for your allergies  ‘© What's blooming in June? Desert willow, golden raintree, mimosa, and vitex (eee); Bind of paradise, russian sage, santolna,fernbush, blue ‘mist sprea, and buterlybush (shrab), Silver lage vine, clematis, honeysuckle, and climbing roses (vines; Chery sage, mexican evening primrose, <elphinium, baby's treat, yarrow, pincushion flower, foxglove, gure, corice min, black-eyed ‘susan, and queen anne’s lace (perennial); Oriental  ies and day lily (bubs); Dahlia, lobes, rasturtium, verbo, cosmos, znnia, eoleus, smarigol, aster, and alyssum (annals).  arly July  ‘Happy Birthday America  + You are entering the hottest month ofthe year. ‘Mulch your plants to conserve water.  « Second pine tip moth alr is usually out by now, 80 spray toes early inthe morning and fllow label iectons.  + Dig up mature iis, separate clumps (discard old ‘hizomes), and reset rhizomes. This shouldbe done every three to four yeas.  ‘Cut cool season grasses (bluegrass and tall fescue) taller than normal (3 to 4 inches) to keep roots coo!  Mid-Juty  + Tumbleweed (Russian thistle) is pollinating and can affect allergy sufferers  + Monsoon rans usually begin now and can coatinve ‘until ate August or early September.  + fungus is appearing in your bluegrass or fescue awn use aliquid fangs contol  ‘© Wash off spider mites from evergreens and buterly bush.  Late July  + Harvest onions when tops begin t bend downward but before they go to seed  «© Check roses for powdery mildew and spray with fangicide. Follow label directions  * Avoid feeding your lawn a this tim. Instead use Tronis, which keeps the lawn green without ‘promoting to much growth and stimulating fungal growth.  + Divide mature daylily clumps.  + What's Blooming In Jly? Tamarik,citalpa, desert willow, ad vitex (trees); Roses, potenti Russian sage, blue mist sptea, crepe myrtle, and rose of sharon (shrubs); Silver lace vine, honeysuckle, trumpet vin, and climbing roses (vines; Chery sage, sand penstemon, agnstaches, sun rose, foxglove, dlphiniom, mexican hat, and black-eyed susan (perennial); Oriental lilies, day ily, and cana ily (bulbs); Dahlia, obeia, rastutum, verbena, cosmos, zinnia, cleus, ‘marigol, aster, and alyssum (annua)  Pao)  TaycDane 2002  Water Use in the Desert By Ed Payne  ‘We all ive inthe desert and water is our precious resoures. This article presents infomation about the water usage in our area and an overview ofthe activi ties ofthe Middle Rio Grande Water Assembly ‘Anyone interested to participate inthis volunteer r= {ganization is weleome to join. I chair the Aliematives ‘Work Group and participate inthe Collaborative ‘Modeling tam, These working groups invite new embers  ‘The Middle Rio Grande Water Assembly (MRGWA) isa volunter organization open tothe public. This troup is developing a water use plan for our area that {sto be delivered tothe New Mexico Interstate Stream Commission in June 2003,  ‘Through 2 public participation process, the Middle Rio Grande Water Assembly has identified 42 pro- posed alternative actions that could reduce water de- ‘mand, increase water supply, change water uses, ‘water quality protection, water rights regulation, im- plementation of plan, management of water re- Sources, and funding. The next step inthe evaluation  is to assemble facts or characteristic ofthese alterna- tive ations tobe used in an evaluation, Five areas of these facts or characteristics have been identified Technical Feasibility Physical, Hydrological and Environmental Feasibility; Socio-Cultural Impacts, Economic Impacts; and, Legal Issues and Resolution  ‘To participate, subscribe to an email distribution. Meeting notices discussion, articles from newsp pers, tc are posted daily. To subscribe, send an ‘email to majordomof@eabg. gov with no subject and  ipseribe mrgwp” in the body ofthe message. The ‘Water Assembly has a web site under construction at pw. woterassembly or  ‘The working group ofthe Water Assembly, the Ac- tion Committe, meets on the third Wednesday of ‘ech month and open tothe public. Join one ofthe ‘working teams of the Action Committe. The teams inelade: Public Participation & Communication; A ternatives Work Group; Analysts Team; Collabora- tive Modeling Tear (a joint project with Sandia Lab); External Coordination and Admin & Finance.  Please contact Ed Payne atre_payne@yahoo.com for ‘more information o how to participate.  The char below illustrates the consumptive use of water in the Middle Rio Grande area."  gates Commarea &  AES, etal sae sutanine Consign —s = pen wa fe Uses Enon se * are Bate  Soares tie Ro Grande Water Auserbly  | | ad | | |  The Gat  0  Tray Tone 07]  TEL: $08/296-TAPE (8273) FAX: 505/296.2597  510 Mont  Albuquerque, NM 87111 ast of Wyoming near Target  mery Bhd NE  AARDVARK AUDIOBOOKS fevy-nenr-reacy  audinbooksaquestnct,  HAN OR RE  Preferred Plumbing, Heating & Cooling 4 oles  0708  BIEN MUR  INDIAN MARKET CENTER  From the non Arist to You  Theat  1. REWARDS FOR INFORMATION leading 1 major vandalism in Sandia Heights, $1000,  WINDOW CLEANING  (CURT BRANCH 292-6487  “NO MORE ROOF LEAKS | The EXCEL Company, Inc 244-3935  Free Estimates -BBB Gold Star Member -30 Vrs. Experience -20 Yr. Warranty Availabl  (Comcast  ort Komman  wil a  A.S.A.P, Mortgage Inc.  HIS AND HERS BUSINESS HE DOES: SHE DOES:  -WINDOW WASHING -HANDYMAN WORK  RELIABLE ~ REASONABLE 286-7575  -UPHOLSTERY| 30 YRS, EXP,  GE Financial Assurance  EGG & Ci ART }  “® 822-9280  fpr in int,  SAVE: == ALL ouTogoR POTTERY @°&% Jackalope cE:  D ADS FOR MEMBER  2 CLASSIFIED ADS FOR MEMBE Te place an ad for member's children please s ofthe ad to: SHHA@sandiahomeowners.org. Office hours are 1AM-3  ILDREN 13 oF send a text copy Monday through Friday.  cc  Inflows & Outflows  Directory 6895.00  one” thie tibet ! weston Sun ‘The Finance Committee 2204.00 2002 Annual Report Members Docs 93308 Rick Nelson, Treasurer ‘Total inflow $817,048.63 Outtions Not: Tt ets forthe er enling 3102, we BoudEspene odo etme we fy 20h soa Sonthemalmeing 540039 ining te ay fer epoca rt Bowen nn Assets and Liabilities as of 5/31/02 ‘ACC, legal not included 92 Gre buenas SE pan Coomera Cash and a Banks Dien aan in hcg $ 500804 Sos sas incps Som 4 wore ao ‘otal Cash and InBanhs 588005 eo ! __ sagas vases Beet shanti) — ame Welcome Residerts 1,044.90 xuipmentandFariare $1080.66 Fone Commie pn Inventory ~Glasses & mugs 772.09 ‘Parks and Development Prepaid Postage, Rentetc 244539 ‘Trees for Litle Cloed Pak 506 ‘Security Deposits: 12778 Other costs: 1682 Tati ey Total Other Assets _$ 18,290.89 ‘Location reflectors for Soiunsune somes step ToubAwes —____sagponss Syne spine —Eseonnss ‘Dues to Community Assoc 610.00 toes nie anes Liabilities Oifotxpese “ eee oee ss4ox0 Legal Reserve 5 15,000.00 ‘Security ~ alarm and OpenSpaceReenve 1861000 e771 Operating Reserve 5,000.00 gue LES Prepaid Advertsing 3,505.00 ‘Telephone @ Internet 251378 Enon tose Bae “ota Laie s2sis00 pa ‘rss Xin ess, uss ‘Assets less Liabilities __ $23,976.64 Office Staff 33,598.88 Sint eps Sev collet es 1243632 Steen te ce TniOuine—____s1n6 8 bnfes or Over Reza —$-61379  Tea Tat Tia]  Communications & Publications Committee  2002 Annual Report Jim Cook, Chair  t's been a busy and satisfying year forthe Comma nications & Publications Committe, We've accom- plished or made progress on several important ‘objectives this year and we would lke to share them. ‘and ur progress with you.  Increased community participation. Last year we seta goa of increasing the amount of Git coateat supplied by Sandia Heights residents, We've been very pleased with the quality and aumber of articles  ‘we've received, Sania Heights residents have exper-  tise in many areas and several have shared thelt  knowledge with us. In this issue we have an article on  ‘Water Use inthe Desert by fal Payne, which i very timely considering the drought we ae ia, We also have two more articles by Dan Cauilo who has ‘generously shared his landscaping expertise with ws  Dan continues his Gardener's Calendar for June and  Jaly and expands on his Theme Gardens article trom las issue with Designing the Buterly Theme Gar- den, Another article on Bears inthe Sandias had be delayed tothe nent issue because of space con- straints. In addition to articles, we’ ve generally ad ‘enough letters fora Letters section in most issues. We sincerely appreciate al of the articles and leters Keep them coming! Ifyou would like to write ar ticle o would like to request articles on a spe pic, please contact: The Grit Staff at the SHA of-  Financial breakeven on publications. Providing Print publications to 2.200 homes and maintaining a website forthe SHIA is expensive, In this last year, we have heen able to generate sufficient advertising revenue to offset the entre cost of all pint publica- tions and website maintenance. Details are provided in the Finance Commitee’ 2002 Annual Repor.  Thea  Pas  ‘Annual Directory and Residents Guide. Publishing the Annual Directory has always required a lot of ‘manoal effort. This year we setup a database to automate the production ofthe directory, which will make producing the directory much easier in the fu» ture. We also were able to reduce printing costs for the Directory enough to allow us to pint the cover in full color forthe frst time. This year we significantly ‘updated the Residents Guide adding a lot of new in- {ormation and where available providing Web inks to ‘additional information and services of interest 0 Sandia Heights residents. We'ee still working on get ting the Residents Guide ready for posting onthe SHEA website. We'll et you know in a future Grit issue when it's available onthe website.  Grit format and publishing schedule, We've boon working to geta standardized layout template forthe Gait, We're only part way there but we've now got several standard elements in each issue ofthe Grit We're also working on getting the content ofthe Grit ina form that we ean post Grit articles on the SHHA ‘website. That willbe one of cur goals fr this yea. La January, we changed the Gri’s publishing schedule from even months to add months so that the timing of Gri issues was more closely matched to ongoing ac tivities such asthe SHHA Annual Meeting,  Security Alert Email list, Based on a suggestion from a Grit reader, we setup an email ist so that we could notify SHHA Members of issues affecting e- curity ona very timely basis. A number of Members hhave signed up and we have issued a few bulletins regarding break-ins or other suspicious activity no- ‘iced in the community. you are an SHEA Member tnd would like to receive these alerts, send an email to the SHHA office at sthai@sandiahomeowners.org requesting 10 be added othe list. This list is oaly ‘used for security alerts and your email address is never disclosed to anyone  SHIA Website, We want to make the website more useful and timely. We've not been able to make a lot (of progress on this gol inthe lst year. This will be ‘one of our primary objectives forthe coming year.  Tanks to all ur Grit readers and website user, Keep leting us know what you want and how we ean provide better service 10 you. Ifyou have ever ‘Wanted to write an article fora newsletter or create ‘material fora website, ve would be very interested in talking to you. Contact us atthe SHILA office by  ‘mail (shha@sandiahomeowner org).  CETTEC  ‘Neen HM TTD  Pron: $25:703.799 Pec sosaea 64  ai wnagrancaboneoeen 2 es Foor we noctoneraeanen 097 tora stat Commune fasten “cea, Chee  Prosucton Porwees  smartest Sands vege  ‘omen ours pce onary Sat sa seabaan  OF Directors  Doo Aunap, President ‘ack Wolfe, Vice Pres Glenn Kua, Secretary ‘Rick Nelson, Teese Mark Beslough Dick Brackew ‘ake Chaves Jot Cottey Grote Conmoe Tim Cock Larry Deon ‘Bob Francis th Frazier Scott Frederick Richard Pedersen ‘Aseid Lagowski Finan tarp Fre Not Ken Reidy Davia Sanerield Jady Schvery Frank Soper Wendy Wells  CLASSIFIED ADS F HHA Mem!  ‘CENTURY PLANTS FOR SALE EQUIPMENT FOR SALE ‘Sandia Heights grow, Leaving New Mexico Make great accent plants J sting all my cabinet shop quality wood in your xeriscape working equipment Various sizes, Bargain prices | Bridgewood 20° Planer, Bridgewood Call Rie 12 Joiter, Delta 14" radial arm sa, Powermatic 65 10" able sw Bridgewood 21” band s WANTED. miscellaneous power tools Another female runner for 3-4 miles, J Also Vectra 1800 multi-station exercise ‘easy pace in Sandia Heights Area ‘machine and large safe Call Kippur afer 2pm stn 1858-3406 856-7833  WANTED. PERSONAL CHEF Boulders, Yes, boulders ‘Shopping; matriticas, delicious food, Preferably large ones! IF you need Cleanup. te remove rocks for any reason, Peas Sandia Heiphts references call Call Pat Chupak Doug Flax 192-89 85653406 RETIRED HOSPICE NURSE EXPERIENCED 14 YEAR OLD Sandia Heights Resident WORKER with super references Good for doing odd jobs around the available for house while you are away, Watering, House Sitting and Pet Care picking up mail, taking care of pets and Call Anne ‘MUCH MORE. 856-6896 Call 856-1483  14 YEAR OLD BOY With Boy Scout Training and 11 YEAR OLD SISTER ‘OLD BABYSITTER Available for babysitting and “reat with Kis, house siting Availabe aller school and on weekends Contact Patrick oF Calin ‘Call 21-0482 It 856-1 od ask for Becky  TOR SALE 1 YEAR OLD GIRL Atthe SHIA office With YMCA Baby siting taining  SHHA wine glasses andamags [| Available for baby siting and pet eare ‘andthe 2002 Directory Contact  ‘The monthly SHHA Board of Directors Meeting is held on the 2nd Wednesday of each month. ‘The meeting starts at 7pm and is located at ‘The William Sibrava Sheriff's Substation  9181-22128 WN anOwsnOnMIY GA HVA KOMI AVS  st SOrtM ELTA 3 WHO) 00-DesSSMOEerseersesteowsrsceconre  5-18 (500) rua woe soho  WN 'anowanonaTy aN Pura onS Prisgrteaty apm ieny nents PR PO  ‘awd aovisod sn ‘ais ag1woszud  Sandia Heights Wildflower Club Annual Garden Walk is scheduled for June 8, 2002 from 9:00 tonoon. The 1" garden on the tour is at: 256 Spring Creek Place, home of Michele & Gordon  MeMi location.  Program including the map forthe rest of the gardens will be available at this  Reminder: No Pets. Houses are NOT open, Please respect the gardens,  Ail Sandia Heights residents are welcome to come attend the Garden Walk, and any of the bi ‘monthly meetings. To become a member, please send a check forthe annual membership fee of $8 payable to the Sandia Heights Wildflower Club to Susan Cook, 1842 Tramway Terrace Loop, Albuquerque, NM 87122 to cover dues for one year  