Volume 91  ‘ast Newbee  Forest Servi Developers Revise Plans ice Expands Foothills Trails For Primrose Pointe  ‘The new Sanda Footils Tal #365 fom he tradbeado the Emit Trl  sas ow been aged, staked and mess sd noth tothe nana fret ‘Primroe Poste son dvehp-  red, and construction on the fist por Won fthe all rom Cedar Hill Rd south to Simms Park Ra isexpecedtobeginin the neat fru.  ‘This mew tall is part ofa compechen- sive Foothills Trail Sytem tht is being developedin answer to demand trom th ‘Sandia Heights comment, along sth ‘Gity and Couny residents for 3 wel developed and ware accesle tal se tem in the national forest for hiking, horse use, and mountain bikes.  ‘The tris design and location ae the culmination ofaseriesof mectingsbegio- ‘ingia une, 190withthe Sandia Ranger District ofthe US Forest Service Sanda Heights Homeowners Association, Sat. ia Peak Tram Co, sod Sandia Heights resideats whose property border on fatioaal forestland. ‘Two public meet  ings were Beld in August, 1990 10 pot inputon the proposed walls one atthe Distriet $ Count Fire Department espe  aly for Stadia Heighs  fesidens whose property orders on atiaal for x led and one at the lena Gallegos Picnic ‘Area for other Sandia Heights reddentsand the seneral pubic  Inpat from Sandia ‘Heights residens rested in the eal ‘ring moved as ar as pose fom ei dences while still aiding encroachment ‘nthe widerneas area. When competed in 1992, the al will cotinue southward tothe new Embed Trailhead in Glen- ‘wood ttl, The Albuguerque Academy hasagrecdtogratpubitraleasements  Primary objectives of the new tail ‘stem include:  = Develop opportunities fr tral mes suchas hiking and mountain biking in pon-wderess areas.  ~ Eacourage ws of developed system wal (0 reduce emozonmental im: pacts on nontailed areas  Reduce proliferation of unauthor iaed wer trails and help climinate legal twespass across private propery  ~ Escblish logical connections within exiting tall networs,  ~ Dissibuteusersamong severatentry poits and trai to reduce enpacs at ny one een o tall segment  Acces frm South Sandia Heights  the cw tall sad tothe ‘ational forest is pro: ‘vided ony at the east end ‘of Cedar Hill Rand a the east ead of Simms Park Ra. No other pos sible entry pots from Sandia Heights South into the aationa) forest twee plated on the San- Ga Heights Maser Plan which was led ‘sth the Coumtyin 1976 (evsed 1980 and 1988), and all lots bordering onthe na onal forest have aw been So  Sandia Heights residents ar reminded ‘hat rosing private propertytocatcrthe Contino on page 13  crs S&S Associates sharedsomeof thei ‘eved plans fr the development ofa large chankof Noch Albuquerque Acres with the North Abuguerque Sanda eights Coalition (NASHC) of home: ‘owners on aly 19.  ‘S&S's original plans called for 416, homes jut west of Tennyson andthe Las ‘Atos de Sands subsist om the west ‘ide of Tramway. Alter the Bernall ‘Coan Commisive rejected the plan, S&S scaled tack to 298 homes. and changed othr major pieces of the org al plan  ‘Neverhless, several aspects of the shave yet tobe finalized before S&S, fa go bac to the County, according to ‘lb Wiliams, coalition member and former SHH Direcorin charge of New Development eho tended the meeting ‘Among tboe neues are the impbications ‘of Primrose Peiate being booked up 10 the City sewer sistem and how the de- veloment is planning 10 handle flood ‘reqaicments ofthe Albuquerque Met Fopaitan Flood Control Authorty {AMAFCA).  “The ae of what street ighting willbe requted by the County Sherif is aso ‘unetld, Willams sy. Honing dew ‘iy ging, aod the poeatia for road ‘congestion were among te primary ‘concer the bomeownen’ expresed ‘ith the rst plan  “Amectingbetecathe developersand AMATCA was scheduled for late July, ‘and. cosltion meeting is being planed for ate August. Cal Mary Beth Lite, SHHLAs aowlyleced Director of New  (a 298 8623ify00 Fe iner- ‘sted in tending the coaiion meeting teatatively scheduled for Aupust 22.  “Grit  ‘The GRITis the oficial ‘ewaleter of the  Bulletin Board ‘Community Calfces CVFD #5 on  Grit Cwrelation  Grit Deadline  rity Leters Holiday Crafts Bazaar  ‘View fom Jack Ratt Hil Wildtowes Group —.—  he AT im it, gi er cg Ts int ce ne lad tin eal lei ae i tin mb df ite ay ale mit ale  {St eae ptr pins pd iy pn 9  ‘hte elt tip by Md omit  ‘Speed Limit issues have readin The GRIT thatthe speed limit thoughout Sandia Heights 1S ‘mpl, and thatthe purpose of the speed Timitissafety thaseca my observation thatthe residents of Sandia Heights uni- formly ignore this speed Kimi Why is ‘this? I personaly bev that tishocause ‘hespeedlimitisnatreascnable Theomly plsces outside of Sandia Heighes that are fmarked with 13 mph speed kis ate School zones. traler cours, parking os, dangerous cures and some small te ‘detial areas tht have many small chi ‘en plying on and around the svets The roads in Sandia Heights taken as a whole, donot it any ofthese deseripoas.  ‘There is a price to be pid for posting unreasonable speed limits (and then i= roving them) that gocs Beyond the pee ‘fan occasional speeding ticket. First the Iimary purpose of the law, salty, Aefeated. Second, respect forthe tatic laws the community ilost, Third, and ‘ofequalconcerntome, we beginteaching ‘our Youth al avery young age that ot all laws need to be obeyed,  His ime to reconsider the 15 mph speed limit wad took at other options that might serve to make Sandia Heights & safer community, Let's set the speed limits sothat the majority ofthe residents would agree that they are reasonable. My personal proposal i t0 set the ove speedlimitat Smmphandmark dangerous cures, imersectioas and drineways with spproprste reduced speed mits and ‘ution signs Alba, T would propose sting yield signs where appropeiatc, ica of using op sims everywhere ‘Rance Edmonds  Message To Pet Owners  ‘Something has tobe done about this peristent price Animals expunge Driate property and in my cae, aod the perimeter ofthe townhouse  iv i 795-E Tramay Lan an end ‘unt that is easly acess 10 anyone {aking a short ct through oar propery ‘When I returned from my vacation in June as flabbergasted by the sl ndlarge amount of animal poop around tmytownbouse the largest ples around the patiowall. had he unpleaant task ‘ofeaningthe bok arca--awhle gat ‘bape ag fal  ove animals but human beings have toaccept responsibilty forthe animals Ipohavor. The least the (pet) owners should do is carey bag and seooper vo Pick up after their pets  ornine Radecwse:  Solution For Pet Owners?  The problem of dog droppings slone ‘our sects is becoming very NASTY ‘when you'e ut fora walk. Maybe pst ‘oweers should consider the folowing ‘sbich 1 clipped roeently from an Al Ibuguergue newspaper:  "Mos ofthe world long ago learned is lessons about open sewers: Theyre ray andcanspreaddneace, But wl {olerale "open ewers" of aso whoa we permit pets to onburdsn themselves out of doors  ‘A Santa Fe city councilor, Frank Moatano, i looking at a way to get ‘owners voluntarily cleanup afer their pets He's checking out a disposable Biodegradable self-contained and sf sealing product that ca sp FOP adhelp hoop parks and sueets clean  ‘orme Mechentier  Page 3  Recycling Saturdays for the meat three months are Aupus 24, September 28 and October 25 from a.m. to 12 ‘noon atthe Quail Run Center, 1270 Sax Rafal (se rcplabes Uist om page 14)  ‘The wll be no refuse collection ox Monday, September 2, 1991, Labor Day, Refuse wll be collected the {ollowing day.  ‘Os the topic of rls, the dumpster behind the Circle Kis the private property ofthe Circle K Corporation. Inivideals caught using this dumpster ean be ined upto $250,  Please observe the posted sped limits in Sandia Heights for the safety and protection of people and wide. Besides the wal proliferation of bikers joggers, and wid, several deer hve recent beeaspsted crossing the comm’ srects inthe iciny cf Black eat Rd  Doe to space coma inthis sue of The GRIT, we were unable to publish Helen Moncute'sStargazers Guide. I you would ike to receive are copy ofthe Summcr sa chart, long wih tips for August stargazing. call he SHHA olfie (7759112). the phone machine answers, simply state you want the Stargazers Guide land eave your namie and addres  Despite the seemingly unlimited supply of rock in Sandia Heights, itis unkawfl to remove rocks fom vacant tes, drainage easements/artoyo, and County rights of way. Even rocks ae semeoae’s property ~ ual individual property owners, the County, or the Albaquerque Metropaitan Flood Coetrol Authority ~ and frequently psy a important fle in oetrol of sl ersicn  ‘The Sandia Peak Uilty Co. recently was anardd the Environmental Protection Agencys (EPA) prestigious Emviroamental Exeleace Award for their commitment to compliae with th Safe Drinking Water Act {troughoutstanding operations and maintcance practices Congratulations iManage Bil Baker, Operations “Manager Cleve Matthews and all the employes ofthe Sandia Peak Utility Co. Sandia Heights resident ae the real winners asthe recipients of lam, sale viking water  ‘The second annul County Volunter Fire Department District Garage Sle isscheduled for Fri-Sat, Sep 20-21 athe fie station on Paseo del Norte, Doetions are now being aepted athe fie station. Or you may ‘all Kathie Wiliams (275.0112) or the station's non-emergency summer (23-4275) 1 arrange fora pcp at your residence,  Newly clcted Director of SHHA Parks & Recreation Ed Whitten reminds members thatthe SHA has ‘equipment for baseball softball soc, basketall and horseshoes that can be checked out for use at Sania Heights Park. Call Ed at 296-184 to make arrangements to pick up the equipment orto discus ether pa related matter,  Residents of Sandia Heights South-Uit 5 shoud mark ther calendarson Augus 1S 7.00pm. for amectng with Jones Inereable to discuss options and posits or bringing cable erie tothisarcn of Sandia Heights ‘The mecting willbe hed at dhe County fe station on Pasco del Nore, 11700 Paseo del Norte NE- Unit 15 ‘residents wll receive further information in he malin the near future.  “THE GRIT" ADVERTISING RATES,  ‘Saember oe Sat ege tence Asocse  nines ad a SS prs) st  Deadline for the November "Grit"  The deadline for sobmitting ads or informatie forthe November tau of ‘The GRIT s Tuesday, October 15,19 Picose submit all materia to Shery Lombana, 14201. Encantado Rd. NE, Albuguergee, NMU7I23, 275.9112,  "Grit" Circulation  Thisise of The Gt was mail the 108 members of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Anacation  MAX SANCHEZ. YOUR BEST CHOICE  Sandia Hoghes has superior shernatve j eninary vel cate aes May Sui comes one of Auiuergie tp prodecers. cared wath the renowied Parmegy Realty offers you Real Estate ‘expertise and years experience  Max Sanches lives in Sandia Heights, loves Sands Heights, and nos the tertony ike it wash backyard — becaae ‘bckard Foe priesionl sevice and a, award ning call Max wen you buy or slim Sandi Heights.  Max Sanches the Sanda Height Spec  From The Desk Of Chief 5 empha the inpertance Of promi the siec, Numbers sould beat et tency and property pling your ad Yourinches( 3) hg ad white or igh dean on your boc colors they canbe reads nh Wy ‘Asliraelaronnd SandiaMeigis Ineo we your mail bo ris foe he bos many homes where the hose numbers amber should te paced on th sides ze cren non-eusem Ifthe ime eer fom cer approach comes thatthe fre department or oer Residents olnchack rom the tect fmasgency services are needed a out _acomidrale dance and wish oh residence andthe address can not be house numbers dnpliyed ony on the Iocated then valuable time willbe lost= ase sel, shold ize i ach (6) cme that could res ahwof propesy samba orate. ‘Cat “Spakic”Spetien, Fie Chef Howie numbers shold be displayediaCVFD Bren #3  Holiday Bazaar Offers Fun and Profit The frst orgaizaconal meting for te 1991 SHILA Holey Cra Barr schedeled for Wed, Atgust 28 at 730, fmt the home of Lucy Russel, Cedar Hill Ra  “The bazaar, sponsored annually by the Sandia Heights Homeowners Asoc ‘in, wil he bed on Sunday, Newemer 10 atthe fire station oe Paseo del None A percentage of the basa’ proceeds & donated cach year to the District $ ‘County Volunteer Fire Depart.  Ariss and crafters in all areas are srged to participate i this event, which ‘be paticized throwghout the City artisans must be readeats of ith Sandia Heights or North Albuquerque ‘Acres and ma sell ons personaly ha taftediters, For the fia time thi yea, the bazaar also willbe sling bowie take goods sich as cakes pies, bread  Ait, craftsmen, bakers, te inter sted in sling their work and persons ‘tiling to donates it  eof the felling ioRet more information. Rab Freeman General" Chairman, 262977, Ley Rossel, Arints/Crafers, 24-3885; Jo Cheney, Baked Goods, 2732516 Jaya ‘arayenamart, Baked Goods 292-81;  auper  Jane Sable, Hospitality, 28 855, Page S  The Fuller Brush Company The Oughnal Home Care Experts  ‘eae Products  (Casto for you FREE  2 for FULL sen  © TRAVEL planning  *PescnalSenice Cotalog ong matt Get . sHome Delery 6289 ? Moni Specios eave mesoge wh CERTIFIED TRAVEL, CONSULTANT sMORE thon Bushes! phone # or addres) i Susan Pinkerton, independent Distributor . H Gandia Heights Rosen) Ssanne Toomey Seaweed NoN-c Do You Want Beautiful, Stylish, FIREWOOD - PINON - CEDAR Preeti ‘ister Experience “The Art of Dressing W Select trom the colertu, vreatioy unique Delivered and Stacked DONCASTER FALL COLLECTION ‘Shown by private. sppolnime ows Fischer Audrey Gray, Fashion Consul Please call 229-0630 mane ail ‘Tronk Show August 5217 1405 sivobll rive, NE $101 Lyx Loop NE (16 now have pete and fil sizes alo) ‘Ano Marie Cale  FRANCINE COGEN ASSOCIATE BROXER  (505) 881-8750  WOME: (90) 288-8090  ONWe  Income Tax Plomning Income Tex Rens, Business Consuting Bookieepeng FinexcalSatements  293-1949  Cenfad Public Account  General Housecleaning  Dependable and Honest roe Estinat References In Sandia Heights Arca  LITA LARRANAGA  998-6464  LOD Atask Ennis  Page 6  Judi's Studio  STATE Fan mesuRANCE, coupames  (505) 296-4567 John N. Gabaldon oe Judi Foster, Owner 28 Feige ill C. NE, ATboguerque, NM 17122 [zeae aan a 6 nace  ‘Aecern owt a2 Siam (is) Eeeaase (608) 208.0963  oe Santangate Nancy Eckert Johns  ‘mai Insretor - Paro Specialit 287 an Yo, cae Mo. 1828 Trarmeay Terrace Loop NE  ‘Alboquerque, NM 87122  Picture It Framed counts Fea  Pamela Wilson. N.T.S. Natural Therapeutic Specialist  sosce-saog _  sports and  Pregnancy massage  ‘ani sical therapy  ero an rte  Member AMTA  GRACE LUTHERAN CHURCH “yeu will find me. when you seek me with your whole heart (Jer. 29°13)  Sunday School: Toss.  (Nursery Available)  On Eubank Just South of Paseo del Norte (823-9100)  VOL  soning vn wooo Sods aea-oz0n te age cage  1990-1991 ANNUAL REPORT  GOVERNMENT LIAISON COMMITTEE Rodney Stewart, Director & Commnttve Chair  “he principal role of the Goverement Lisson Commitee has bees heep the Board informed on City, County, and  ‘the ualty off ig Sandia Heights  Highon the agenda ofthe Commitee’ priocies fas been the monitoring of “Trameay Bid, development. Commit tee Member Jo Ann Zembice arranged for Judith Philip, noted expert on lind- scaping with ate plans co addres the Commstiee on landscaping pouutlticn {or Tramvay Blvd. Ms Philips i under contrat to Bohan  partial aspect ofthe Tramway Blvd. Improvement projet led tothe invave- ment of the Sandia Heights Widower Cub, including cub officers Mary Colton and Bev Grady,  ‘Whee County Comsionr Patrica ‘Cassidy comacted the Goveramcat Liai- son Committee to request Sandia Heights’ participation oa a Tramway hud. Landscaping Task Force, Joana, Zembic, Bev Gray, and Mary Coon  voluatcered their te and energy to repeseat the interests of the Sandia ‘igh community. Mary has since become chairperson ofthis tsk fore which is now pursing rant males 1 fund the Tramway Blvd. landscaping project.  ‘Comainee Member Norm Mayer has ep the Commitee up-to-date on mat ters relating to the Sate Highway Department and City Council and Com mmitiee Member James Smad repre- sented Sania Heights on the Mille Ri Grande Counc of Goveramonts Track Route Task Force. Lenora Austin, member of the Goern-ment Liaison Commitieandaso Vice Presses ofthe SHH Boar, sevedasthe community's representative with the National Park Service and organized a meting withthe parkserviceandSandhaHeghts residents regarding new fotil tas.  This position as Director of New Development and Member of the Gor ‘erament Lisson Commitee, Bob Wi- Tams has performed an inaluable ser~ ce to the community by keeping the 'SHHA Board abreast of the plano  Primrose Pointe development 00 the est side of Trameay Bl, Bob ao has played a Key oe in lobbying foe passage ‘fa County Parks Ordinance hat would lay the groundwork for creation of @ sch-eeded County park in our area,  In shot, 0 unter on this Commit- teehas-leaed olisher ones They all ‘serve your thanks and sappt!  “The Commies fina action this yea tus been to pla, dat an present to SHIA Boardaconceptandimplementa- tion plan or restracturing the ‘Associations Board of Directors to af- ford represcatation by dosti. The ob- jective f this resrecturing pin 0 ‘cahancediangue between the commu- nity and the Board thereby making the Bourd mote respoasvetothe community ‘andthe community more aware ffssocs telore the Board which may impact upon residems’ quality fife.  “The plan has bees approved, and we  ave 12 vepresemative diss ‘With the cooperation fall our esideats, 1am coafidea it will be an overdu gut of 8 oar rusty machincy. ‘Thanks for your support.  Research and deivcration clminated in the implementation of 2. Sandia “eights Recycing Program during 190.  ‘om alternatives for seyeing the Com mite arranged with the Cay of A Daquergue for pick wp of reeyable saterias by City truck with cash peo- eed going othe Association The Cy offered andthe Commince acepted = ‘ick up schedale ef once a oath onthe  RECYCLING ‘8 Hat, Ovector & Committe Char fourth Saturday, with collection hours om 9 ain. 0 12 2008  ‘Avrangements were made with Pat ua the owner of Quail Ru Cater, to ‘we the centers parking lot for elle ‘dons Recjeling Saturdays startedon the founh Securday of November, 199. ‘Since December was shipped becasc of inclemem weather, sven sucesfl te ‘yen days were held duting the 90-91 focal eae  ‘We have collected many trackoads of  suminum cam: seein cans: newspe pens Katt papers cas ome and to Pluie bal eer green, and row gas bones Totalrecept were 47665 {trough Jane, Pt epemes for eraler teal and ye: pining were 582 fora et income of $2485.  The Recyeing Commie has aad aly eganded thowghow the ont By the ad of ne te Commsitce bad tpandeato fica emery aad eral sposse sito.  Pages  PARKS & RECREATION Rainer Schuip, Director & Commitee Chair ‘The HHA Parks & Recreation Com- ment forthe park incloding all mate: tors._Selected) Heads Up maini- mite kicked offi activites duringthe als for she. preparation Coordi- mancecompany sndinated a main- summer of 1980 through the active par-matedapproval ofthe new equipment tenance contrat on May 1, 191 Ticiption of the following members: withthe Sandia Pucbloviathe Sandia °Developed and implemented. new  Rainer and Cathy Scheip, Rich and Peak Tram Co. park reservation and wage pices Jeanne Bando,Pauland Lisa Stewar.Ed —°Maintained the park ftom February anda fe schedule fr park wage by ‘Whitten, and Stephani Brinker. ‘through April 1991 fllowing the ter-  rmination of the Aswocition + mate: dedication and ‘The accomplishments sted below are mance contract, resulting in signif baseball games. at 1991 SHA theres ofthe Committe’seflortsoner Cant savings othe SHILA, Spring Fling. the past 12 month “Mae » commitment to the SHA, “Planncd and executed a successful Bourdtosane the Association 19% in TheSHHA Parks & Recreation Com- Holiday tphs contest. ‘eater and maintenance cons ding faces many challenges ahead i ‘Repaired, revamped, and relocated 1991. To date, the Park Commitee such areas as park maintenance aad cxsting park equipment including han saved $2,200 in water and malnte- improvemenis, security measures to re- Nam ree nance costs, representing a 48% sas- duce theft and vandalism, clarification of backstop and swings relocat> ings over this same time period lst authorized hiking rails in Sandia Teeth and pic abevand coor: peat Highs to incrcase community avare- ‘by the Sandia “limplerentod w marketing program ness and rll we und decrease legal Peak Tram Co. of the broken park forthe park including GRIT aries trespass across private property, abby ate and persona contact. ng for a County park in our area. Why “Researched, evaluated, purchased, “Revised contract, accepted bi and notin ws? We need your time, cncrex. and installed new playground equip casted four masntemance contrac: and Support  LEGAL ISSUES Louis R. Mande, Droctor& Legal Advisor  the past several moths, we have suc- prescely appeat in some of the cove- ‘xeded in correcting a number of long ants an oily some new provisions. ‘SGandingconcnanvicatons tantcpute appeovedby the Board an atten wil ‘ha he new dict representation sy be made, pursuaat tothe pesent cove tem for the SHHA Board of Dieciors nants, to hve the new covenants ved ‘illmake covenant mowioring more ofa opomand incorpotatedintgeach sta Foramumber of years the Assocation eightorhood program, with input pro- sion iaSandia Heights. The result would ‘had ben relying on the Sandia Peak vided by the Legal Commitie and the be a wsilorm sct of covenants i Sandia ‘Tram Co, to provide monitoring and Board of Detors. lights which would belp eliminate the clerical services ona paid contract basis curreat problems with ambguows, {forthe SHHA's Covenant Support Pro- The Legal Committce's major project vague, and outdated covenant provisions. ‘gam. The Tram Co's decision in Sans forthe coming year willbe an atcmpt vo Hopetaly, this woud contribute to more ‘29, 1991 omolomger provide these ser simply the existing and diverse Dee- harmonious ving in out neighborhood icctmade covenant supportevenmorest larations of Restrictions. (covenants) 4 priority isu for the Sandia Height throughout the Sandia Heights comme Homeowners Associaton sity. Prose hore fa diffrent set of covenants for each subdivision (30 at AAs everyone mows, the SHHA is a present in Sandia Heights. No eso of woluntcer organization whichdependson them are cxactiythe same, and some are the communitys residents for many twentyyearsold. The revuitistha Sandia things incading covenant exforcemest. iiph'residems ving acrossthe street ‘Through an active recruitment program from eachother may have cute dif fs the area of eorenan support, we now cat covenants controling their roper- aveanumberofvolumteerstoasist with es. ‘covenant inspections and have imple- The Leyal Commitee willbe prcpar mented a more eficicat and effective ing set of covenants which we hope will rocedure for covenant enforcement. Ia include all of the best provisions that  sa 2 tee  any  Sirectary. Or sence aay ter  Page  ‘The Sandia Heigh-Norh Albuquer- que Actes area is projected 1 have the largest growth ate forthe entre Norh- ‘east heights over the next few eas. For ‘xample during the monthof Apelsome $44 now permis were granted for com struction of singe family resideoces im North Albuguerque Acres eat of Eubank.  ‘This thendisexpeced to continue and should pose no serious problems due to the low zoning demsty of one singe {amily dwelling uit (DU) 00 oe scree larger lots Problems are ely to aie, however, with higher deny urban de velopment that can create concerns ia {he areas ol puiceafty, noise a pbs tion along Tramway Bvt potenti! os of views, over-cowded schools et ‘One ‘ach proposed devekopoect, Primrose Pointe, created enough con. ‘erm among residents that the Not (NASH) was formed to represent the interests ofboth our commanitcs Ths olition succeeded in geting a denial of the developments master plan whem  Commission, However, the Primrose Pointe developer, S&S. Associates, has  ‘NEW DEVELOPMENT  ‘Bob Witiams, Director & Committee Char  appealed the Comminsin's decision and IeNASHCis cxpeciedio standin oppo- sition tothe master plan ait cotreaty is  tors voted to maintain a neutral postion sed tokeep residents informed aboutthe development as wells the aciites of the NASH. The Sandia Heights GRIT ‘semleter wil continue to keep our res: ents iaformed 00 this and other peo- posed developments. SHHA members ‘who wish to expees thee views New ‘Development issues should cout thet itiet representative on the ‘Association's Boardof Director, myself anther member ofthe NASHC, or the appropiate County fie or official  ‘There ate several Albuquerque, Ber ‘nll County, tac, andFederal lies ‘which hae, and wll comtiaue thie, a ‘Grcetimpacton our ene and pockat ‘boks. I's eal for Sandia Heights to ctrchrmanterslgerrmnca gees ane faity addressed  Some umgoing concerns forthe coming eat area follom: Use of Tramway ‘Bd byheaytracs speed noise ad at polluion along Tramway Bhd; com ‘mercial zoing and ypecil ie and 708- {ng change equsssfor parcels of land oe ‘Tramway Blvd. and Pasco del Norte: flood contro throughout oureatire area:  iy. High on the ist of concernsand pioe- sien the extrome demand and need for ' Coanty park and pubic playing Geld ‘ur area I's paradon that the Sania Heights community, with one ofthe bie ‘st incomes per capitan the etre State, Ineksadeguae facies forts adusand youth to practice and play soccer and Uasehal abd participate in ther family td recreational activities. I scoms our ‘community must send is children off to ‘lay a the City’s pars ike 2 bunch of wide our an dlrs ae spent  ‘ther ares ofthe Coun  ‘The New Development Committee ‘sill cotie to monitr these an other eas of concern. Ws a rewarding but ‘ery challenging job in need of volun- teers, Why ot se involved!  ‘COVENANT SUPPORT  Lenora Austin, SHA Board Vice Proskent& Covenant Commitee Chair  For many years, the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association has acrpted ‘the very dificult ash and responsibilty for covenant enforcement in Sandia eights and with varying dearees of suc- cess. Historically, the success of the ‘Association's covenant program has been determined by a homeowner’ or Anan’ wiingnessovolustarly comply he cvs  in January, 1991 the Board cd Decco aprred sdiploneted ‘anew proactive procedure 10 encsrage ‘and attain covenant compliance. The ‘procedure bes with a letter fom the ‘Covenant Support Chair ntifing the ‘residcat that posible covenant wola- tion exists and culminates wih the refer ‘al of lng erm violations tothe SHH attorney for possible legal action. To ‘ate, the new procedure has achieved  compliance in a number of cases, some wich had een receiving voltion 20- ies fr five years  Covasa inspection ours ofthe va ‘ows subdivisions are anew and primary fnction ofthe Covenant Support Com- atc Sx volunteer compra. the CCommitce "have. bece_pectrming ‘mont ispecton ors throughout the Communi and suiting report for route plementsioncbe ation aii process Bu the ser quae tayo ants and diferent version he Declarations of Resins (at pes et) make the cate proces of event ‘montis and compliance mare comr ‘hated ad conse  We av high hopes hat the recently approved Bourdrecracarosin ee Semaine ditt al ep apron as  ‘covenant enforcement proces. The ‘Board hs fet for sometime that many ‘eovenant problems ae linked ack of information and communication tegard- ing covenant sacs. By creanng Board  fn dri the residents in ‘ach sabsivsion will have a. persona fontact on the SHH Board 1 Farther ‘Sucans and dary any coneaant prob Jems ad ise  Copies ofthe appicable Decaation of Restnsions(eocaants ate now mailed ‘ut wo each new Sandia Height resident in their offical New Residents Packet. However reicets who moved n during the tims period whea covenants wore Mot ‘mailed ute who lost their covenants ‘may cata the SHHA oie receive [bother copy (81 charge to corer copying 2d postage) Architectural Review Committee ‘reviewed and approved the plans foe 13 ‘ew homcs in Sandia Heights ding the past 12 months.  ‘The clerical and administrative  and developaset finsructionstocarly the review and approval process for contractors and "Sandia Height residents, The Committee also  ‘and implemented a new foe Schedule that eter reflects and ‘compensates the SHHA forthe review fod approval time required for each Proposed consirection oF renovation Project  Based upon the recommendation of the SHH Legal Advisor, Lou Mande, the Commitee aio revised a numberof polices and procedures and formaized ‘the procedures relating 10 review and ‘approval, compliance inspections, ‘arances, and an oficial course of action {foc handing covenant vlaions,  ‘Even with the best of frm, polices, and procedures, th tre sucess ofthe Architectural Review Commitee sti ‘dependson the redemts and wold be" residents of Sandia Heights; their sense ‘of communky pride and cooperation, and their willingness o compromise and ‘comply with the spirit and imcat ofthe ‘covenants in cach particlatsobvion,  Special thanks to Evel Martin who served onthe Board of Diteetrs andthe ‘Architectural Committe dating pat of this fiscal yearandalloftheresidemswho ‘made thi ificuk but mocesary task ‘easier through their cooperation and wiling compliance wit the covenans.  FINANCIAL REPORT Any Anderson SHHA Treasurer 1980.91  ‘The SHIA ends the year mach like ls yar ~ sly the black,  ‘With the 1990-91 fiscal year now history, we closeout the year with a $17,000 hulanee.  Eventhough las year we ag 8.00 too Blanes: this year sees staking more ‘than $30,000 oat ofthe reasry. While income has maisaioed lst years pace, ‘expenses have heen considerably higher  ‘Contsbuting to the year’s higher expense level are the following: New park cquipment which was offset somewhat by lower park maintenance cost; higher lneper fos reflecting 4 mone comieat approach to covenant caloreeMen: 1 fll months of service and increased hour onthe prt ofthe SHA Excuse Assistant, parchase of a computer, printer, and solteare forthe Assaciaton.  has been my pleasure to erve a our treasurer and meter ofthe Board of Directors forthe pas three years. 1 have enjoyed working With a great team of olnteeprtesinal to cae omg abt er nucmmanty to geno  time and effort  FINANCIAL SUMMARY" ‘can Bogrnng OF Peis 7/1/90) rene ‘ot Exsosee et or Powe  Cash ser OF Pa 6/20/91) s:70028 (DUESALLOCATION Percentage ct SHA cuts canta ncmeecelesin each cot cet ace as Fated Pecan ance tae) = Cermameatone (OAT hewn Revs Decay) bry ‘Serena Erect (Covent Von Let’ eps  Foon, ec Revie ay rat iaates New Mere’ Marlent Sean Fig Hoy iz) aa ‘SSrnmate Ore Sopa) Raoprast Prosnonen Poaaon Pane Tees AIS |  + sour wert ort icrva rove mas come cashresone nthe 8B 00 fac  = Shamemoerswne woud to receeacopy othe Tieaw's Reporter hea Haat yourmay lhe SHrhotic 79112) Gnawa be mass you ten Ocha.  DIRECT SERVICES ‘Sara Warford, Drector & Committe Chair  ‘Tweleacighborhood coffees wee organized and publicized bythe SHHA thisyear unde the leadership of Connie Krele. The coees ae a tration favorite among the community’ residents (SHHA members and nommcmbers aie) a 2 time 19 sect and greet new residents inthe community aad vst with “old” ficeds  ‘Lacy Russell served as General Chair of the annual SHHA Holiday Bazast 10 bbenefittheDisrie SCounty Volunteer Fite Department. Thanks othe contributions ofthe partcipating artists along withthe efforts of Locyand many volunteers the Izaat eased $470.70 forthe fire department  ‘Beaslfel weather and the nowlyiatalid park egaipmcat contribtod tthe success ofthe annual SHHA Spring Fling Piese on Memorial Da. Some 20 tteadecsenjoyedthe games, pinatas sed dccious charcoal boiled hamburger and hotdogs Cathy Conn Selle City Lights from Sandia Height ts /  $6.3 Million 1990 Sales One of TOP TEN Realtors in Albuquerque  * Sandia Heights Resident & Neighbor  The Prudential @ Souttmest Reaty (505) 298-1600 294-7619  oo | “The Difference is Obvious” SANDIA HEIGHTS ACADEMY  292-55 Under New Management  At Tramway and San Rataol, North of Academy Inthe Qual Run Center  | We're Running Hot and Cold  I FLAIG'S FIREPLACE & PATIO , your store for all seasons: FIREPLACE 298-7447  Quality & Service Our Comerstone  Page 13  {rom the native plant nurseries. (N ind» Manni dase (N) Fall bloomer,  cates New Mesto naive.) sre LOTS of room, Saaazua () Big be sage SHRUBS Redox pokers Ras ilobaa (N) Lemonade bush Yeas ‘Nice fall colo. Hesperabe- Teas rd aloe Rss lara (8) Smooth sumac good Raliomentbaincana (N) Rosemary or falcolr.Tryforlacleavareg,espe- bush min, blue flowers ily nice ‘Betlndaizat 8) Choco Nowe Sazes () simi iin erimiia Spurge. This eds itself be prepared. ‘Living With The Natives fcigida accmiia emia ‘hil maiadiaa(N) Desert mari  Eatiszaradasia(%) Apucheplume. gold A numberof pepe have ated me Ratsspatin(N) Broom dake, for Zinnia gaily (8) Dest sania,  stent Plan Rab Seen Lapua) Gover,  engaged inthis wal for several years, Fl Jumiers ‘Baktcophe tags (8) Paper  siekimy mck oat ad tarde MS flower  in the hope it may be elpfal to others Barberries Daylily. They cat them when emerge  swith aba prblcms, Holies| ing in cary sping bat tend to leave ‘hem alone alterearde  InNew Mexico, wehave some wonder. PERENNIALS  falnaives battkes site dnngre Pemtemon, deere: Panga: Some pla that are in cary isl  both grow nae plans and inte the Wolins p._palmeri, pseudo: stages tt so good so far: Budden,  ‘native animals in, as well. In our dry  Sosclabilis P. pinifolius, ambiguus cataptcri (blec spwrea) and potemtlls  ‘country, they're hungry and thirty, and (1Or sand). B siriaas and B. whip- racticuss Pleascletme hnowifyouhave  Strpwiee ple nareersc okie SAMS ras clack at nook. Patstondd sutra  silrdioen Hee mse Bex sean Hein let Aageerque we engi ina [= —  conta ute ost veh or mox_|| Sandia Heights _| Foothills Trait  fovanaa, SN Msonhent | Wildflower Club “235 ||| aff nd inom  || On July 16, Wildflower Club ||| siderate of the rights of your acighbors.  My friends who know about these Snmcves| ‘However since the main purpose for  things say there NOTHING tas | medina plant cour inthe Zant ||| ering the national forest i exerce won cat whcathey arc hungry coough. || Mowataims near” Ramah, New ||| hd Fcteaton. why at put on your ten Ferinds of drought are especialy tough. || Meco. "The group was led by || shoes and ally ae youre aork- ‘To discourage the litle darfin’s, protect |) Micqse Hendrix of Ramah, a noted || | Ov! bywalking or biking to Cedar Hill Rd. nevrlt hy anaemia and earcin |] Sms A es  9p. (Chicken wie job burt | idemihing satve modici plans, insmplymoe ence than your ‘i cly te used ona short tera ass || Clubmemberskarndthat many || boy castolrats ou cand pd park hileplansaretouheringepdve tothe || these medicinal herb om right a ||| YOR Carat the kaa Galleps Panic covenant restriction pohiting fps | owe backyads, | ‘Area, Sand Heights Park othe Sanda i )  lvirfences) Youngandtendermesm | ak Tram rina. NO parking willbe Salad for al creatures, especialy wher || Afamiypicicon August 17inthe | | pemittetat the end of Cedar Hil Rd ot yourewateringalottomakethom grow, || Manzano Mowataim is the nex | | 0% Honeyucie,  | schedledscivay. Club members Insite ofthe aac ofthe ong car, ave heen sted 10 a priate, 80. |||, Baht Sana Heights Homeowners thereare somethings that seem to gor || cremounin retreat complete with ||| Associaton and the Sanda Ranges Ds oursking ouside our fenced areas, || wo waterfall, | wit are inthe process of updating the ‘which mcan they are (1) drowp resin || trad maps show bath new and existing timo owen sop || For mo inemaian on dab || is on oer se ad oat Yoni tafribemos | ais al Bev Grady at 2: | Meal wer pts, The nw, San fertheRstcomsas of plans withopincs || 07%. Membership 35 pf a L_—- {bine (ase. Mest ofthe plata | iin SS poe oily) tute nate ranger’ map hope ‘elaively easy to obtain nom, parity fully willbe ready thi fal  Page 1  “Your plans or mine?” MAGNUM HOMES Ue, 16438 (New Homes, Additions, Remodel, Repair. (Garaaes. Rot Tubs de More Fat Bid or Cost Piss DAVE WERNICKE. Owner  296-2973 £262-962  outve causey  The Vaughan Company  SEE Metadcown  _, Mark Napolin ‘The pro from Transamerica,  1A Transamerica general agect in  ‘Trasarrica ie imesance sash othe Praia. We ase ofr con-qulfed, tm -eelerred wus, and pemion ‘2c retreat plans for ndicuals and bosiesae® 0 all ‘ees Pius we're one ofthe largest IKA peowers in the insurance nds.  Sodvour hahng bast he best way o protec your fami scare reat str ag for hare, al 90  Mar. Satin LU CAFE Seana Age  SS adem NE Nmaemee Su ET Sesh  ‘same tas  TRANSAMERICA .- LIFE COMPANIES  THE POWER OF THE PYRAMID IS WORKING FOR YOU"  EH COON Te  ONE WORLD, UNITED IN PEACE  Ue tr we pcs put  wel ct an hae  OF WORLD PEACE" pied by tr Bel le ye neta  neat te eer foryeire ti meme eg Pet Kage at Scene, ‘mayers, university presidents and other prominent people in the United States. To obtain a tree a ‘copy call 293-1845. i  The Babe Fath ic 8 world regen sepeentig nilians of people en the pie.  Donations are not accaped.  neeRTTTNTETRE  © cling colton pont at Qual Run Centerif the Ci  COMMITTEE REVISES RECYCLABLES LIST ‘With seven months’ experience handling materia fo ey ling, Recycling Soturdays havc hecome the modern equvaleat ‘of the “village well” reports Bill Hein, SHHA's Recycling Program Directo. “I's a great chance to meet, speak 0 Out scighhors and vat, no mater how brief “Alice several tempest broaden the Uist of reeylales, the ‘Reeyeing Commitce had to drop tin/ steel cans and eared ‘ass and snow xlecting ool those material thatthe Cty wil (ake. Following na fst of cercealy acceptable recylahes Please crush hem Hat 1 ede Ue ull ‘Nesspapsrs, Pease bundle them or set them into paper sacks and discard the advertsing inserts on coated papers. Please bund them at. CereaTbows thoes sith coated paper camer ae aot ace Picase rinse thom and remove tops orfings You ncod nol remove papet label Rinse and remove tops cycling riagle" cathe  ‘and igs i dt, look nse Use bottom ofthe bt Resieats are requested gat 0 eae Feyeabls at the ec) chs are ‘or ita member of the Reeyelag Commitee is not Wsimperative that the appearance and cleaelinea of ‘Center be maintsined wal mes “Janey Brink member of the SHH Board of Directors, ha agreed to serve an Co-Chair ofthe Recyeing Commitee along  | Sth Bil Heflin. Resides are urged to cal Jancy at 291-8910  interested ia joi  this hard-woeking eroup of valutccrs Sandia Heights Reaffirms Truck Route Agreement  The interests ofthe Sandia Heights community wore well repesented at a July 17 mecting ofthe Urban Area Truck Rowe Task Group by Cleve Matthews, Land Operations ‘Manager with the Sandia Peak Tram Co along witha number of ndividol Sandia Heights residents  AAs Matthews taeda the meeting since 1976 the develop- ‘mest of Sadia Heights bythe Sanda Peak Tram Ca, has bees ‘redicated onthe fac there would be o through ck afi ‘on Tramway Bhd, Thiswas based on the 19% approval by the ‘eral Board of Cousty Commissioners of the Stadia Heghts Master Plan which included the dedication of feet ol ddsional right of a on he westside of Tramway Bl from San Antonio St north othe Sandia Peco boundary,  ‘The Sandia Peak Tram Ca. dedicated the ational right of ‘way ~ which amounted to approsimately 10 acres witout ‘compensation under an agreement withthe County that the ‘addtional 44 fet would be used to creat tking. bicyting. and pedestrian path. A second condition was that Tramay hud. noni of Montgomery would be signed "No Through ‘Truck Talc. lntheeventthxecondions were nochovortd thea the 4 fet of right of way woud revert back tothe Tram  ‘The desgnofTramay Bh mprovcmens (curently wer ‘onstruction from Montgomery north to Paseo del Neve has incorporated the hiking, biking. and pedestrian path The ‘SHELA Board of Directors has high hopes that Tramway Blvd. ‘orth of Montgomery wil be designated “No Theowgh Truck “raf” in accordance wth the 197 agreement aod tha this ‘portion of Tramway has nally and permancty bees remoned fromthe lat of posible alternative tuck outs,  —  Support Your — Grit Advertisers!  Meet new aeighbors and see “of” frends atthe community coffees. Mark your calendar and noi your hostess you plant atendso that she cam plan acceding! Call Beth tll 296-4504 ifyou would ke to have a coffee ori you ned rie,  eryone is welcome!  ‘Wednesday, August 21 Warm. 12000  1 the homme of Connie Kelle 65 Antelope Ave  i Erin  Wednesday, September 11 1am - 12000 at the home of Alice Fiteau 9104 Lyex Loop west  Wednesday, October 16 asm.” 2 n008 the home of Lia Stewart Juniper HA Ra Bes7N  Wednesday, November 20 am - ian atthe home of Rab Freeman 131 Big Hora Ridge C  77  Special tasks to Bile Ryan and Jane Stabler ‘who hosted our afer ia Sane and July  53 Edward D. Jones & Co’  Sandia Heights Resident  se eran see “ea ls  ‘me 9 mts  ‘bout Ye oe Prce of "Cowungs”  STUCCO SERVICES DEPENDABLE WORKMANSHIP: WOAN SHELTON  Teno eons  Page 16  Prince of  Peace Catholic Community  600 PM  Sandia thights Homurwnirs Arselation SHHA. THE GRIT ‘0. BOX 20021 ALBUQUERQUE, NM §7154.0021  KIP’S KORNER  BY YOUR STATE REPRESENTATIVE KIP NICELY  Please allow me to reintroduce myself to those of you who I currently serve but  ‘may not know personally. My name 1s Kip Nicely. and | am In my 1st term es your State ‘Representative (Oistret 31). In an effort to feach out to and with you, this wil be my  first ofa regular series of logisiative updates to keop you abreast Of how our tax collars ‘are Doing spent up st the “Merry Roundhouse” in ‘Sante Fe.  Also, | will be providing 2 commentary on toplcal Issues, and explain how your Involvement can make a cilference. Our District Is and should be one of the leaders In ‘Our community. | am personally proud of the many chizens who have donated thelr ‘ime, earnings, and goodwill to communtly programs ranging trom elderly care to ‘economic developmenttecrultment to open space preservation tothe local PTA ‘Groups. You are the catalyst of our society's daly improvement.  Before 1 begin on the State level, 2 few comments on the Tramway Improvement Expansion Project may help. | have received alot of calls In regards to the eetour trough Sanaia Heights South enroute to the Elena Gallegos Park. The reason that ‘many ot you may have had a difficult time finding which agency to reach regarding the Droject is that Wis a city municipal effort being funded with federal dollars, using Slag workers and administered through the county!” Folks, we can't get toa many more layers than that I have had numerous discussions with not only the project ‘engineer (to ensure more speed limit, siow, and caution signs are posted), but also the law enforcement staffs (10 provide Incroesed security) In an attempt to make this transition a8 smooth a8 possible. This etour Is anticipated to last thru Jan-Feb 1992.  ‘Ok, back 10 the Merry Roundhouse, The 1991 Legislative Session (60 days) ynded in'a most serendipitus tashlon, but the taxpayers sil ended up with the short ‘end of the stick (again, naturally. The 900d news Is that (1) we could have been hurt ‘much worse than we were (2) let's count our lucky stars that ur State mandates & balances budget, and we are nol spending beyond our means and ending up with huge deficits like most States (Texas, $55 billion, California, $12 bition, the list ‘on and on), of the epitome of fiscal foolishness, our federal budget deficit. New { 7 fees (to the tune of $17 millon) were Imposed on local government, horsemen, Tngurance, and the biggest stinker of them all-taxes on out-oFstate municipal bonds. ‘Alto, we saw the implementation of new social programs which sent the welfare toad {Wom an already alltime high, antrousiness measures continually  development???)  ‘There appeared to be 2 feeling in the majority camp that any programs put In place by the former Republican administration had to go. As a result, the whole 21st Century initiative went down the tubes, This was the only truly tanovalive program In education that this state has tried In decades  Finally, he to a9, I YoU have not areas, to please Become Involved with our  community at some level, and we can solve problems with a collective elon, Please  {ool tree to call me anytime (292-8577) i You need stato oF legisiativehelp.and thank ig me the epporunity 10 represent you in our Di  Non-Commercial Advertising  det pe! po or ma fe Se He Home omen, Non camer ‘rite Sontag hoe pea wn ce Fa Sa oe! so Peon a We ‘mp ace ae to of acento Sena om sede ha coed tah ae  POUND CHILAPS WAT o SLA Sing "Sina Magee a Ca Sintec 23.502  ‘Senices  OLSE SITTER ReapostieU Mace faker yourhuwe” re pt pat ‘Since ns tg erences aan ‘Ge Fwe S80  Ak RAY SITTER om pr ene s Mcheke Mame at 1a Topeens. mere  AILAROLND GOOD QUAL WORK 0 ‘soo oat te ach by eng yr ‘erp treo Cal Mau aap 1) woe!  [DANY SETTER for ton pet or prs Liprenets apenas mice [Pee a Eby ey) Boe 2 BAY SITTER Toneen yer ctw ee Sea Cheaper at 2  CARING ASD EXPERIENCED HARY  ‘Coleman nanan (a) Sa  EXPIMENCHD. AND RELIABLE waBy [SITTER na ove er wen oe ot | ‘on opus sna an gant ioe ana fm eienectd nh ee Cal Keven Tie fp 8)  ‘egedem, Cat hare D0  {GOING OUT OF TOWY wl ead owe ‘Sey Ssmconetnpayourenede’ Mower teen Tat i of ye op? Cal chard ‘ros ge Tw 3801 (tae aad ane)  HOUSE SIFTER st yt sr ojos ane flim Ante wide joure ow of orm Menon, shan USM sera Soa Heo raion Reteses satan Comat  Penson tedden ‘Grisya thence mba a eaten ne Re Cs ay tine couse Ci ener is ope) a 3  PETLOVER AND MOUSE KEEPER Dey ‘Seeyuurpenated enter ederh an Cat (raed Paberan Sot Twat asoee cect  HOUSE SITING Coie mens maemo Seco en Rehabs hows Ca¥ Ass Poets 138.  WOCRE GARE SANE waiaing ne pant  RELAMLEENPORTENCED perc mto> ‘Sit ating lop Bond) hat wn Se ee tay a  IRELAGALE, RASFONSIML wANY sre Expesemedainohe Cal Mary Retro  HT WAELING XX CLEANING oe)  SEED 4 WAMYSEFTRRG Ca ny ne ge Mjmesvaash perenne yo ingot on Lambe yop  SENDA EXPERIENCED ay SITE Cal Teenie Rene (og  Nizp Wir wink Foo. wuNwc Gitbeawage tap ye meal Oto, Sagoo hae wn  Join Us for Bridget Ladies Daytime Bridge Couples  i  “YARD WORK. HOU SE SIFTING, PET CARE. Sb cree, arte 2A1E TERRIFIC THNAGE TWOSOME ‘ete rtaty sagan Co Pome Geet oc oe age 1) ten DS  Wonca  [ skibe TOR ws pagar Semen | Soccer! Neem rg nr ena fo Seni ogo oa Kare oh 78 an  {MRL WITH HONING WANTED, Wong USisednnenoninelzeh enone ig | Cato  ‘SANDIA HEIGHTS BRIDGE CLUB  Evening Bridge  ‘ed Monday Ta Saturday  {th Weaesday 2nd Saturday 2nd Thursday sth Saturday 2nd Friday 1s Monday  rd Wedncadsy  “eee a ne ong forming sc we Mf on woe 9 py "= sey poop sence Pop el es Wadd 87  