Volume 91 May 1991 Nomiber2  Get Set For Sun And Fun  ‘The Samfia Hcphs Homeowner, May2Sandcondnds with SpluhDayon the Fow Sexton: Cb i orig 8 ‘uocision wil hot i anal rag Memorial Das, May 27, AU Sana sumer of vem throughowt the FingonMemorilDiy Moda, Mayo? Heights cevéents (For, Seatoms samme ide ure Team Tes ‘uSanduHighisParkonJungertill members aad oneal) are vied sad matches and men’s and womens tewcen Tramway Rd and Cedar Hil tocemecapytc FourSemocs vmod lagen ice adn Cathe Ra ‘tmonfacnie Beadeachanciocel Four Sass Chole a 27-0736for “The days ates wil inde co-ed offaersping Fingal park, more afrmaton on simming and talchall Tor all age Poupe licalPootManage GuySerplasracrand canis acti ication the new ark equipecel, gases fr al age gros cling 8 Besides scheduled acne, Sand fds cows ach of Mong ane and ener: Heights oles many recto imburgers and. hot oboe tne tyverteies for biting. hig aod (hp careaveed to Sovaplor19Swin pking inthe Naha Fret, ad fertcion by Brod and Team eyo bop Jone Prince se the The Sandi Teghts issankac and beat Comment. Sri Team i open to Take abaougs of hrc agr sto Sihows amie. ae| Board Approves temic the Four ‘ ‘Season Chb. Gey, ao the Four Seasons For Regional  for a schedule of all  Spring Fling activities Produced anoually  wunder the ection of  ‘Andi and Sara Warford, AAquaticy Ietrucor, Representation  fhe SHA Spring Fling is fce to. offering private and group sntmming  members ofthe Asociation, Guestsare lesoas. at Sandia Heights Pool 10 | Have you ever wondercd where and ‘elcome ata cost of $2 pet person. member and noamember chiles ver | how your Inerests and concerts about  “Anoaal Open House at the Four the ae of fou. the Sanda Heght comity coud be Seasons Chub wil begia om Satuiday, Walter Heliigel mow tenis pro at | expressed and heard? Wanted input of immer on how your $350 per moth  docs are speat by the SHIA Board? Hane you cher wished for aforum where your good ideas and postive suggestions might be weighed? Dues the Boardtraly represen the vows of «majority af the ‘Association's members omen ise ‘or juste wishes ofaveryoealinority? ‘Answer cou Tic ahcador all ofthese questiom. The SHA Board. of Dieecors has approned the concept of reguomal Board. repescatation that would make the Board composition more response 10 specific groups of fesident “combivents Heretolore, Inominees Yor the Board of Directors Ihave been drawn atlarge from throughout the Sandia Heights Contre on pe?  Paseo del Norte Fire Station 11700 Paseo del Norte NE ‘Allactve SHHA members (espa to dat) are urged to atend and ‘ut thie votes. Nominations willbe accepted i advance and from the  ‘oor toil acances onthe Board of Diveciors. Brit reports om the Associations income, eapenanures and actives wil be provide,  ae  |  President  = 25 Se, 90-91 SHA Presid  such Hig end be te paki of concen ead  7 residents, x you. 10 proserveand cahwnes the waality af bie 'n oor comaxanity, i 1 i }  ‘The pootal nbers smoeing we : roSetertiy fee  tom enc mgpriwed the conse Furs pt ie wn  deface ons mgaiar hab orser aacation pie ule } Saline sapibom ta you aceite pyres poréacrcenie Gf Sofi Hidchis coxzuniy. i  i Mime Groep eB |  To date, the SHHA Recycling Program has carned 328748. Each month the program is more ecesful than the ‘month before, with some 250 Sandia Heights residents dcbvering recylabies in March. Recycling Saray for the nent three months are May 25, June 2, and July27 rom 9am. to noon atthe Quail Run Center, 12700 San  Rafael If you're interested ia voluntcering ome time toast the SHHA Recycing Commitee al Bil Hei 11.088.  ‘Picase dont wait until the last minute lo contact the SHHA regarding architectural approval om adios, ‘renovations, wals/fenes, swimming ook cle Thi is an extremely bay tne ofthe yea forthe Architectural Review Commitee. Plan reviews and ste inspections ate done by a commie of volunteers who perform this functionintheir “free time” asascrice othe Sandia Heights community. Plas shouldbe submited days before ‘the desied starting date for are. Contnet the SHH ic (275 9112) forinformation and architectural review  forms.  A Spring clean-up reminder: All rush and woes mast be boxed, bagged, ce bundled fo regal ese pickup bbySandia Heights Services. Arrangements for special pek ups canbe sade by aling 28-9585. There wale m9 ‘refuse collection ox Meavoral Day, Monday, May 27 on Independence Day, Thursday, July 4, i both anes, ef wil be elected on the flloming day.  Donations atenow being sought fr the Dist SCounty Volunteer Fite Department's anoual garage sale planned for lite Joly or August This a great way to clean oat the garage o storage arca, and all proceeds wl benefit the District 5 Voluntecr Fire Department. For formation or pck up, al Kathic Willams at 275-0112 ¢ the District 5 now-emergency number (293-175).  ‘Sandia Heights Resident Prank Tce has besa appointed by Cousty Commissioner Pat Cassy to represent ou ‘irc tepardng allocation and enpendnue ofthe 1/8 cent ron receipes ax increase in unincorporated areas the County, Alternate fr our ditc is Joanne Fezpatik, a resident of Noth Abbuquerque Actes  Mark your calendar on Jly 27-28 for Mountain Discovery Days at the Sandia Peak Ski Area. There willbe many ccovironmental awareness actvtis scene und conservation groups reprseated, Admission is rec. Call the Sandia Ranger Diet for more information (281-330).  Persons who ar intrested in finding out more information about activites and programs ofthe Sandia Heights Babpiting Co-op may call Hl Kray at 26-1088.  From The Desk Of Chief 5  What ime of year when yard ean- in cling before that time. Sine the wood Gluing elim and cham) ep and landcaping we on everone's message changes diy, don presune eran orig suance sno permite minds andthe phonc ells srt poring. thatthe aformation you gut on the Use. of accleraats (lighter Msi, i about the County’ weed barsing previous days i correct olin, ole) 40 stat afte abso 6 cedinances Keepingatewsafaytiwand "The No ura”, “Burn”, and probed ‘lcs inmindcan help preveataccdeis. permis hoor for buring ae set Couaty harming rogulthons also Uy by the County's ar plaice /ire require that a water hose (water turned conoladisor Ingenera beninginnc ox) wah presorzed note be ‘Mlowed om windy or overcast days medial) adjacent tothe aca where ee important ate hat County you ate orang Information Is mot avilable until residents are ony allowed tobura grass, Clark “Spare” Speatman, Fire Cif sppronimatcySam.sother'sno punt aves, ami tumbleweeds. Burning of CVFD Divas #5  Nemeommet th ay ste ngs) ERED  (Saintes ofestnaehogralioncomee Anas The deedive fos sabmising ads x  ‘formative for ths ADgast tse ef Tax 18,19). Fiewse erry Lohans  Doss car 8 yeh (2) eee  (| coment pepe (GS prego 53 rae)  eae  | penrairineriarviogd |} smetomestaaesuter cic em etie ; sherman came =" feeormtpanerymmney ji ion, Amu ice | oat fee once , ‘ai the home of Connie Krelle  ecndteow meegrnann at etm Cone  1  Pages  The Fuller Brush Company “The Original Home Care Exports  @  Relabie Procucts Cat today tor your FREE SPesenai sence Catalog and FREE Ge Home Delvory e889  thon Specs eave messoge with  “= MORE than Brushes ‘phone # or ogcros)  Suson Piekerton, independent Distributor (Sandia Heights Rescent)  3 cor FULL SERVICE TRAVEL planning  CERTIFIED TRAVEL CONSULTANT  296-0428  Toomey CTC Air-Land*  FIREWOOD - PINON - CEDAR Delivered and Stacked Doog Fischer 294-4418  ‘9101 Lynx Loop NE  Plgnse call for an. appointment  Audrey Gray, Fi  bo You Want Affordable Clothes? $ | wate sl or nnn  299-0430 Pl  COGEN REALTORS:  (805) 881-8750  ‘Ann Mace Cale ied Pubic Account  Income Tax Pisin Income Tax Rew ‘Business Consating Bookherpon Financial Si  293-1949  General Housecleaning Dependable and Honest Free Estimates References in Sandia Heights Arca  LITA LARRANAGA  898-6464  SHIRLEY GERBER  ‘icaona Consaare (605) 275-7765  0 Terme Lave NE pases ti  ‘Devens Toy Boos & Games For A Apes are Desanennne Funeeats Cuaey/Prore Oreos ‘ow Ono ol onsign Eeyonbegs Pan & Ful Tone Corer Cosas Vani Aocepad  udi's Studio  908) 286-4377 t SuaaLigane rnc | “SR DESKS | Jodi Foster, Qvacr 1 28 dag iC. Agog 8 172 sretagmeurnmee cxsomen | eins e ees an mene { a pos) ascases | sovamrete ancy Metart Jodes i este = Pw Se ' mamta 182 rama T1203 Loop NE boca  sumone | | i}  Page?  Continued from page 1 ‘commenity via roruitment by current ‘Boatdmembers solicitatiinthe GRIT  CommanityDistriting ‘Theconceptofregionaltepresntation cisions dividing Sandia Heights into aris along lines already abled bythe Sandia Peak TramCo. when the 33 Afereat subdivisions (units). were Plated. By combining two oe more units {ome ents tring undeveloped or sparsely populated at this time), a manageable wumber of 12 dstfias ‘equiting representation onthe Boardof Directors could be designated, Considering the demand for Board members to fil varices commitice postions afta of18Direcors wouldbe Tequicedto meet he current needs be Asocition ~an increase of thrce (3) Dizectors ver the cutest 15-member Beard hs some 1600 residences and an simated population of 4800, Sandia Heights already his become one of the larger community cattics in Bernalilo ‘Coamy.-Aloeg Wits this growth aad ‘expansion have come the poblees and concerns with meeting the needs of a ‘owing population. sen tboos’ a8) fesidems veto Sasha Height to get away from typical headaches and hassles susovited with ile sa the ity, Sania leigh residents mast frequen face a shortfall total absence in services and amenities that iy dwellers take for gramed,  Benefits of Restructuring  The tractive featere of feprescotatine Board isthat each dst woul have initselected Board member 1 plat of contac foe dakoge wit the eciéon-making body of the ome: ‘owners associatia whch s rape for planning and implementing the smanagemca!ofcommantysevics and ‘cites. This should afford a chanel {for iformation trom the Board snd a spokesperon to the Board for the  dems ie each rir Meneticial Ieplieations of Suri representation ould extend into icra-distrit meetings  ‘ith dialog on pital ci, and foveramental tect Whos fees are that call for input om the. catie Incmbersb the famework soul in Place for poling member on thet Spimoasandpreredcoures action  "apr from the choo vale of ‘nereingommunicaion and edacing teisuedertundings, this proposed rangement woul increase comunity ‘oi throng he sharing of es and ‘Ssposies wii och tit and ‘Moot ater dseminatn fie Seoutne inormaton. This abso would {seat smoother implementation of such fonctions an arebttral review Andover support Condon of ‘rojec wich spun across Stic Ens ind impac the eatite Sand Heights ‘Gaunt acho Trarea) Boulead Iandssping al development of County fark could beer orchestrated. The events for dict besateaion Fojects and creased teraction {mong igor abo is an ebvious by. rode  Tm soamary, the gol vo drive sho tenefis ofa represctaive commen rganationwthow the miliones of treacratc werbead ad red tape If {his comcpt ret ou, hen You'te cexcourged 1 contact “one of the ‘member ofthe SHIA Board (sted in fhe" ack ot your Sania Heihn Directoy) othe SHIA fe (275- 9112) and express your opisions on dirt epreetaten  Get Inve! Vote!  Given the distribution of current Board member: throughout the ‘community and with a view foward achicving more represeatatve Board ‘prccipation, + number of seosraphical tapshavebeeaidenified tm parila, Feadens ia the flowing subdensions (is) are encouraged to conser ‘unming fo chin othe SHH Board: Sandia Highs South (commonly relerred to a Sout Unit 1); Sandia Heights South Unite 2,7, Cedar Canyon, 16,19, 3,27, 7B, Z1C, 28, 288, 280 Sandia Heights South comprises everthing South of Tramway Ri. In (general (ol course there always. are exceptions tn eer ule the fist digit oe  two digit of your address indkate the ‘unt number sere your residence located, For example, 668 Blackhawks in South Unit 6 1133 Marigo isin Soah-Uit Ii. if you have questions boot your nie number, please call the SHHA ollie fr clarification.  ‘Besides representing the needs and concerns of their constivents, Board ‘members shouldbe pecparedto commit fan average of cight hours per month aticading Board moetngs and serving 09 ‘Oncof the SHHA's commiiees. Current fcommitees are Executive (President, Vice Presidont, Secretary, Treasurer), Arcitctral Review, Comaunicatons, Government Liaison, Legal, New Development, Parks & Recreation, and Reogling. However, new commits ‘an be eutblshed by resolution of the Bows,  TE you are inerested in serving your community in this very important role,  protesioal background and indicate the partic committe ow which you would be iatereted in serving. This  formate canbe submited to one of {he edlowagmc embers ofthe oman commitee  Rod Sewaet, Chairman, SS ManigoldDe, 268177/3458991,  Lenora Austin ‘919 Trameay Lane, 296-7332  ‘al Hefin 46 Live Oak Loop, 21.080  “The Board of Diectoes is optimistic ‘that dati epresetation would make the Sandia Heights Homeowners Associ ‘tion more elective and responsive (0 the needs ofthe community. Won't you ‘ep make i happen throagh your put ad participation?  Even you dont wich to serve om the SHHA Hoard of Dioctrs, the Asoci- ‘sion sccds yout atendance and we a ‘Qc SHMA Aaaual Mecting and clecion ‘of Board members on Jane 1,191 a 10 Sim, athe Paseo del Norte fie station, 11700 Paseo del Nore NE- . Pages  Bazaar Seeks Artists/Craftsmen  ‘Thisis your opportenity tobe prt fone ofthe commanity's ‘most popular and vellatended annual eveats = the SHA, ‘Holi Crafts Bazase  ‘The date forthe huzaa has been et for Sunday, November 10, 191. A percentage of the proceeds fom the bazaar is donated tothe Distr § County Voluaeer Fre Deparenca Coordinators ofthe 1991 event plan to make this the gts ad best the hazas's iory am are now looking for artists Sandcraltersinall area Participants est he residents of ether Sandia Heights or North Albugeerque Actes and ut show ‘ony personal hand-rafted tems  "This year there also Wille aa area for seling home-aked oedssuch as cakes, fis breads preseres ete Sod outhose ‘family recipes and brush up om your cliary sil  "The bazaar alo needs volunicers to serve as eshiers and hows/homeses in the bowptalty room ant to Relp with publicity, et up laa up,  ‘Aa organizational mecting willbe held in Angus. Artisans who ar interested in selling the work, Or persoes who can sere as voluneers should contact one of the flloving chairperscas:  Sara Warford, Geseral Chairman oe)  Lacy Resell Artss/Crafters re  4o Cheney, Baked Goals 232516  Jaya Narayanamuri; Baked Goods Ds  Sane Stabler, Hospitality DSSS  Financial Woes Jeopardize Vietnam Veterans Memorial  Eaters Now: The following ace was submited by Sandia Heigs Resist Clave Mile nh, when recy sng the [DAV Viena Veteran Nationa! Merial sx Angel Fre. NM, we alarmed 0 disor that the fate ofthe memorial was  eopant |  Some cy... some ae dy-eyed beyond teas... some just gaze in swe some are seated in alent payer. But wo Ome Fermains unmoved when they enter the nai’ fist memorial ‘edicated to all Vitra vera.  "Foe neatly 2 yeas, the DAV Vietnam Veterans National Memoralin Angel Fite has stod as a supreme tribute tothe ‘serfs American service meaandwomenintin olarmed ‘conti. “I 8 very eal some isnot a war memoria, but « ‘momumeat to peace," said Dr. Westphal, Resideat Director and Memoril Foundee  ‘Bet now this Deal monument isinjeopardy. A number ‘serious cracks have veloped in the ehterir stud o the Memorial Chapel, andenreme reaction i nccessary. Other preservaive maintenance als needed on the memoria Visors Center  ‘The memorials fended solely by prnate contrhations with no nancial atance frm the federal or sate goveramet, reports Bal Leakam, Exeative Director fr the memorial ‘The memorials carret ancul badge is $170,000, and only 000 in publi suppoet have heea ras this ear  “The generosity ofthe American pulps for this natonal shrine" De Westphllsid."Wehope they now willanswe the call for fending support to preserve this memorial that remembers the scribes of yolerans fom all Wars”  ‘Tax dedactibie contributions to help preserve and support ‘the memoralcanbe seat to: DAV Vieeamn Veterans National Memorial P.O, Box, Angel Fire, NMS7710. Fo ational information comact: "Bob Letham, Executive Director (60877-6800 or ($09)377-3588  3 Edward D. Jones & Co’  Sandia Heights Resident  ‘About Ye the Poca of “Costngs”  STUCCO SERVICES DEPENDABLE WORKMANSHIP: wWOAN SHELTON  Dost ROMANE (Eno eore  206-3400 ow onnare  AM erhne—inci  ratel  Paget  roots wie gs goers Sanne Eta | acankéy Zale Yaga! the $02 stn ale! Sande  fer fluoning: gale tony fice the  CAMCOm== ~ Advertisement ; EALTY  MARY, ‘O'BRIEN 292-2021/296-1091  sie ee ‘srhagortoet  ER fe iy rie  & Parapet  / Flashing  eer  ‘oe wcany te py the cea of tng fergation sysem and deing the acts! plating ofthe shrubs and trees we are The Landhenpiey “Task Fores; a ‘ovating on domaioss From recdenistoiaatve of Cousty Commissioner Pat inirchase the majority of the plana.” Cosy, vos establiabed in Mg, 10 Mary Cater Bor ies do han fovioong the announcement that 10 ‘Zecabiee = Rave tent uch dime aad *Whiletie plan isto keep svateeuauge Furey weve wvilble for iandsenring effort ta insane that cur couimnueiy’s 2 i, Teumay Md, apn completion of out Inuaretin preserving ane obwnciag nz; oa free repeat ne sazural beamy ofthe Sancin fOURDS Bd isd by te Boars of valsrprnkentd wa olga Uh ‘The Sk force box re i cenaesinn pr throagh TT Nork  Soni 4m,  sporpasiacion dnt rth cileomsrose i consermige wines. Tu perl creat being sagt worl! prove SOQ wer | ieow prot. Flowers i peatble to otisia teverd ens sod nae the poole wer a enber of earn Mary ad, E A Sy Inmet Alagoa Sepracdpioteemnlaies i serbe bs (eam to rey feteres tnd myn cd sclethe pentiog with somatic inn, "RU je aon 6 yeore commitment of rederts inthe Sandia vildfloncr, trees, and sdrche at oe Tsar Bhd?"  hee you're athed  invites you tos  Spring Carnival and Flea Market  Saturday, May 4 11:00 am to 3:00 pm  Fun 0 Food 3 Games 2 Fiee Market © Prizes Pun for the Whole Family  Page 18  ph  ay)  Ps  (Owe Man's Weed  Human natu being whats we want what we dont hive. ‘Tat seems to be specal tue when comes to gardens ‘The patent householder wil strugle and struggle with claberae ierigation stems fertilizers, greembouses, special sais, just 10 prove he can outdo his ccvironment and expand its horizons by ‘ging plans that dot natalie in bis area, am actvy which is eopecally <hallengig here with Southwest lina and soil  1 ara tnd couple of pots of sewpsou pink mgs co my stad teroce cach simmer thoking bo Splndidthey we banca inde lancro here ey gum ewrehore he ‘vmuy. the ratareae ocho Inman so ve tat hey hae ‘mate it impose for sme ate Platts poder  ‘nother lant mond which soar tke rabbits haw igre) Btety ‘bush (bndilcia) which has now been Iybridvdioaratherweltchned sha ad comes in ely shades of pure thc white ndsometinc pink aeons ‘happy here with 2 small amoant of water, Wanpred me in puter Eoglad 6 seeiigrowing esol abaneedialh nd ‘Seward weed aye apes  “Thete's 2 longs of plants like his fine in oe stuaton, 3 nuisance in anorher, Red valerian seems to be a father testained and acceptable plone tender our dr comitions in California ‘ccm the plant that may take over the ‘world, appearing everywhere ifs not wanted, In Calforni, too, the preay  THEVIEW FROM.  pink Mesican cvesing primrose is an away someone teased this fovely ‘hereperes plat going comply plan andt cli fr at ell ing ‘oa ot Bounds. but bere ib tore cits de when tvountered to growin Comaraied by minure hmiatioes my own yard  Almost a weed there, an okay plant i  ron gardens bite New Mexico's beast evergreen  relat pestemon from our movntns,  The reverse BE, Some of New fasytogrowandadeigh year rounds ‘Mexico's common plant 10 which we sot very wehinown out arsris Ut aye tention, are” eared jst recent To England has Boca hewhere. Sometimes if condones a frown for along ime ad brid fo tight, the lovely Santa Fe phn wil Color, resuliagin yelow and pink strains Snpearintbe rassaroundmyhowe. H's tthe plan. But of course the Engh Ae shy a this elevation bu in the ake” horticulture ery setousy and Spring can produc arian pink many we’ just beginning t0 think aboot Paces inthe aes imagine my sare planting in he Seatwest.  ‘whes. browsing though an) Eng  horicultue Toport about “clare of Meanwhile, oor will plats are our alpic plas with lorateinructics New Mexico resares ad hardto grow Cnmakinggraveltouphsforthomtolne, chewkcre. Let treasure oat WEEDS 10 find that “the mont fica of all  ‘Alpine paatstogrow"hadwonaspecal somewhere che!  ‘satdenshow pie it was phox ana.  ‘or Santa Fp. Thousand of mies = ean Heflin  Sandia Heights Wildflower Club  ~<  “The Good, The Bad and The Ugly” nas he topic ofthe March 11 meting ofthe Sandia Highs Widower Cb eld a Davi and Mary Colte's home. Dr. Louise [Leonard instructed the group on bow to Un plant 0 attract bats, and Dr. ‘Charles Ward of New Meco State Usieraty spoke ca pine tip moth and bow to eceattsinestationoftrees. Dr. Wardabo saredhisextcasivecollectionofinscets, Inclsing mth an bates foes throughout the woe  ‘The club mecting om May featured an carly morning breabast/cbseration visit a the home of Dr. ani Mas. Roget Hoppe. The Hoppe's backyard has been ‘designated a National Wilf Hatt by the ational Wile Federation dc tothe ‘rolilcration af fards and masons they have aracct thet yard through cael landscaping.  ‘The Wilflower Clty aneual Sandia Heights garden tour and plan sae wll be eld on Saturday, Jane 8 from 9am. t0 000. The fee tour wil begin a the home of Janet and Chock Wiliams, 64 Cougar Loop, followed by tours of three other trdens_ AllSandia Height esideas are ivced to come enjoy the tour and plat on  Persons intersted in joining the Sandia Heights Widlower Club should contact President Bev Grady at 275-798, Anrial dues ae $3.0 per family  Remembs, comerve watct and plant aaines! Page 36  ~“Cxvonent lasne ieee ee OAD GEL  Sakty ys  seat gpa ha fay bog  a slong up sever ang  rowed wis age  Bemis 2 vetasbone  i Wires ns Fm "anon | i  Uereca Gute Dee Asan, BE ge Nagy satan onal een : Cones iaion abo ive Deonssatoraidensryacig f| | orSoewowerinasmi ta |  tie following, Padhiehena « Pubbacin V8  Shomoui etn if ‘rset eee Die Sumicreteae i re ena /RV Capea Sicoares fervent Penna Abbearty “Thank You!” goes out from the SHHA Board nd S05-758-4 4735 i  Sumatran Er  Pend asta Won Pree 4 RCL BAO Tae Dr Mica C77}  aoe  Page 15  Mark Napolin g “Your plans or mine?”” nN Pro from Transamerica, a MAGNUM HOMES: 4 MMransamerica general agent is & g pat ba 5 aplah ——Newtomes. Adams, Bilernis wha var ace g Remosel, Resa S Aad you tan Rs cxamennertaseiere — Ol im  Flat Bid or Cost Piss DAVE WERNICKE, Owner Ei vuolig i de lle nevus ada Bo ‘Traaamerca ie mance eat et fe Pram. We isso non-auliie,m-delered sues, an pension  td rlrenen plan or dvds sd at SiSek Pus wee cr of i largest IRA provers fo  Sostyu'e hiking sont he est wat protec you fay BILLYE GAMSBY ‘a yourerendy to art awig forte tre Cal the 9 od from Transamerica.  Ww TRANSAMERICA Tax see  THE POWER OF THE PYRAMID IS WORKING FOR YOU"  Carpet ana Upholstery Cleaning  Same Day Service Cal Today 883-4101 A,  Time) 4000 San Pedro NE. o  u CLEANING  ‘SPECIALS sere on hess eat me eee Sass FREE FREE gsm endl Stt35 SESS, FRESE, memati Att aeotc H clbicaats  DEODORIZER & PRE-SPOTTING  SPECIAL PR: SPECIAL PRICES —  AL PRICES — DEODORIZER & SPECIAL PRICES Meeoine §  Page 17  County To Begin Road Maintenance On Selected Streets  Road maintenance i scheduled to De; Whitetail fen Juniper Hill to Live  Allof the rodsia Sandia Heights haxe  begin in May on a umber of streets in Oak been dedicated 10 Bernailo County. Sandia Heights TheworkisbeingpesformedhyDanac Consequently the Couns responsible ConsrectionCorp-ander contract bythe fot muitenance, sticet name signs,  Sireets scheduled for maistenance Bernalillo County Public Works ralic control signs (speed lenis, eld  ‘work inciode the folowing: Cedar Hill Department. Project Manage is Josh stop cure, ct), weed coat  from Tramway Lane all the way eas to Speakman with Danae’ Constraction and pothole reais, ad seow removal.  the National Forest boundary, allof San (28-2529). Comirucion Manager is Rael; Juniper Hil (foe the Sandia Grant Snyder wits County Pablc Works Reservation south t Big  2]  BAe  STEVE HANKS  $F EMAVA  =  Do you have a quality Sandia Heights lot that you would sell for cash?  We have out-of-state customers for custom homes and need several lots. |  CALL PETE OR HERSHEL - BRUSHWOOD HOMES, INC.  BRUSHWOOD HOMES 981-6819  | Advertisers!  Saowremonalis prirtized wth majoe (@oo-m16) steral  lowed by school bus coutes and residential arcets. When you tae ito ‘omsideration that the County maintains ‘over ND meso road, muchotthati the East Movotain area, then it becomes Picture it Framed ‘dices why a heavy soowfall may delay FINECUSTOM FRAMING aND ART [{IR)JM) soo removal operations on Sandia — IB) Heist eidentil streets  ends being fest ow the st  ection and problems reesding Open Home & Stging rood maimcaanc, sp, cle can be ro IRA] acct John Ramey with Beals  Your Grit  Sandia Heights | Homeowners: ) Association Board of Directors || Meetings Each Month i] 7:30 p.m. \  Paseo del Norte | Fire Station ||  Everyone Welcome! | ‘Things erehappeciagin the skys vemancr. Vera Mara end Joplter sto moving wed readuesous iz ‘aidsoce where they vil be joined jn the cusecr saooa, ie prepared, go ost teaight ed Boyln wo Sacbinna wet whe May czeiclevoos. Tcp Bis iile d ams aiboteibte  abe Vie ey a0 ss Lockatthechert Thsdinde ab bes ieices opewents row Sucrcs. Tee enaselciinne Cypae (Gh Snes), Cussnzein ae Coesa's Cae}, (Gg Telnet Spins Gio Souegion) an’ ede he Serlecec you ay ao eat emcees “Tn ste of Gis sy ccc rll Ove ows bor ‘Vase aj (fhe B85 Dippun i xe: pues head inthe reat  ‘Won you go om x xigt wits tar chart. the ScbendlorrtediAlvews:s eos fora paper ng, Tin csr Dell vl ha yan trea tothe cas vl ban ‘id tot desk, Cat pert tose dn fies econo cues  ze tly dlies  toloctst you mnStag kde! sed vl Sonos, Ay dango cara oss Hebi oensada ed HE, Ameen, NDEI 2 a  lo U2, Const Cava Atay. CEN BE Bieber t 296088,  mina  Page 19  Non—Commercial Advertising  At ese aed cand a pedo fom me of te Send Hige Homer Aven. Non comme 28 ‘Zeina seve etsy teat del far Sancta Lae Pae ndWa  at ‘Sys rt cd ate aa oft om nh Sn lo gh Be et Coe ea  ah mabe sae. Cat HS  Serves  “AAA BABY SIFTER. ous nce ps uae (Gras ee hp 1. Pee Mcbe Minot PH Hagen mes  ‘SL AROUND coo GCAITY WOW fa ‘tone ose fer ch stay nag ns Satestre ce Ga Mace Aen a) Percry  BST aioe eo ee aaced mage wheres ae ey Dra a ah {RY SETTER Then jr a sin 1 Cat es Cher 32  CARING AND EXPERIENCED Ban  ‘WOUSE SIFTING Cope soa lam Sioa Hoga Ree reese Ca Aa Pome a re  OUSE CAKE SERVICE ning ase pe ‘teecng ocr senna ao eegepe  BELLE EXPERIENCED Iiparo sale ‘i ig (ge 3 209 he wag Se macang, ceray ma an pope ‘Gna Natnan et Ratner a at Stem  ELLE, RESPONSINLE Ma STE  ‘Ejenemedeen ues Caley Rcbion  {ca WALLING AND CLEARING ope ‘tong ares a ibn et  ‘NEED AY SETTER a ey Fae oe Wyatt Exeneneanasaaie Arye (Penoutt wate tec oe ek  SEIDAy exrrENcroR srTTER Ga Senne Kone ag 1) 393506 Wi mae Sete ncesrionetvomng ine CA  EsPONSIMENOCSE SITTER Witsoe (fates anna yum Relomses (Mihi GtAmy seiner 200  ‘YARD Wonk HOUSE SITING, PET CxmE, fe by expec mapa 1 ea ret! same for huing Gt Soo Tchcpat se  7211 THAME TEENAGE TWOSOME ‘Seah tutes a Pale Geet? orhaoms (pe 8) Men 058  Kose Teel ge) SKE  ‘emp WELP wind FOOL MANTRNANCE aaa en ‘nape Nn eal ord we bay Soi nto snag  YEXPERIENCEDBABYSEFTER Eajosintans (atoung cies Woe cag sot ‘ort at or haven ea aan  fine neces a oe  open ‘Aepsatee Aaemy So Sa ego vene. Ca han De  cnn.  HOUSE STTFKL Rayo UNM wen  ‘latecaetyertone ars yp eS Hep bone ting meee sense  Wanted  “APPLICATIONS ing ier tee  Teomonen pare Moot Risttcepay. sed compar wcoumng ‘pence Novara Sens met IB SIs7LAmopcgee NMG  ‘RIDE TORE? Nox per? New sen Sa fow!? Mong 3 smo sth meg avenues Wagon sb ‘tee pharm Ca are me  ‘QEALETYRIDCAR yang Ai Weds Sonn Somers ia, Neste om Sarat  REGULAREANY SITTING JOB mone! ore See taka Ta  [RESPONSI PART-TNGE WAY SETTER ‘Song er moe ye od howe at aetna  ‘SANDIA HEIGHTS BRIDGE clus Join Us fr Bridge?  ‘Thera new gp omit ek Yo we ew ay "Sy gn fasta oa rs Watd DS  Prince of Peace |} Catholic Community t  Annual Sandia Heights  SPRING FLING  ‘The Sandia Heights Homeowners Association Board of Directors invites you to join them at Sandia Heights Park for the Anoual SHHA Spring Fling. Come socialize with friends and neighbors, enjoy delicious food, and try out your athletic skills on the baseball field.  Free fore. “embers ofthe SHHA, V civess are weleome ata cos of $2.00 per person. WHEN: — Monday, May 27, 1961 (Memorial Day)  WHERE: Sandia Heights Park (West of Juniper Hil Rd between Tramway Rd. and Cedar Hil)  Coffee and Donuts  9:10:30 a.m, Co-ed Baseball 10-1030 a.m. Basketball Clinic 1030a.m, ‘New Park Equipment Dedication  11:30 a.m-2:00 p.m, Lunch Hamburgers and hot dogs with all the trimmings, cooked to perfection by noted chefs Brad and June Prince.  Baseball (69 year olds) Baseball (10-12 year olds)  $7.00 SHA members, $9.00 Nonmiembers  