Number  Special Crime Prevention Issue  Sandia Heights’ Crime Rate Compares Favorably With Two City Neighborhoods  “The Sandia Heights community com- Four Hil, Vilage Homeowners Asso- pared favorably with other neighbor. cation. Glenwood Hils and Four His oodsin crimes per thousand population were selected for thir siiarities wih during 1990, according to statistics from Sandia Heighis in median income and  The Crime Index isthe sum ttl ofall incidences of criminal activity within wo ‘oad categories ~ violent cme and property erie  the Albuguergue Police Departmen: ee0sraphic/topographic features and In 190, the Gleawood Hills area had  (APD) Crime Analysis Unit Adve to difficaties ia fading. anotber "Fer. purposes of comparison, the Bemalilo County neighborhood comp. HHA obtained and analyzed crime sta-_ rable o Sandia Heights  Uistcs fromthe APD for Sandia Highs Crimes per thowsand population is and the areas covered by the Glenwood determined by dividing ancighborhood’s HillsNeighborhood Astocation andthe Crime Indexbyitsestimated population,  NEIGHBORHOOD CRIME TABLE sarc vag Fors Ganwcd Ht  ‘VOLENT came TOTAL:  sco ime Sealey he  Semn06  Snecoine dasen pa 2  erin . so raat anak tne paso ug asthe fr te puree ‘sen sever boy uy ustly accompanied by Se ne of a weapon. Feshey:Metingeratumpangtaeewyeingol vaste car cued e800 ES eESin tyro tee ret offre evalene anor by puting ews | ‘Sete The awh arty ots uct commit ony ta an I rs met yee seein POM ‘rvs tc mr wehw pana seomares ese ete  + Bondo 10 sate edad by APD Cte Bras Unt  two reported robes (leone sot  ‘ted on APD report) Sandia Heights done reported robberyat be Circe K fn Trangy Blvd Toa inadences of open crime encompassing burr, cen, and auto thet = were 6 for Stn eight for Foor Hil and24 foe Giawood His (ce Table)  “Wik anesimated poplatinn of 410, Sandia Height had 1990 crime rat of 1 eines per 1000 population; Four His tad teins popaatin of S00 and cre ate of 2 crise per 100 population Glenwood Hil ea ‘ated ppastion was 2250, making the 1990 ime eat 38 climes por 100 ulation .  Security Patrol Offers Comprehensive Services  From: handing buplais and barking to snakes and. sliciors, the Sandia eights Security Patrol provides a nique blend of benefits and services to ie suberbes  ‘Sanda Heights Security hasbeen the ficial ponder of security patrol sere. fees to resents and commercial ent pies in the Sandia Heights comenu Snce 1978.  “Thepatrolhasan8-amember staf allot whom are slat Beensed, private patrol operators, The patel ison duty 115 boursper week andis direct contact with the Bernalillo County Fie Depariment,  sed local abs  Sandia Heights Homecurners fhsceiation assu2  PUBLISHER: MICRODATA ine.  Wanted: Neighborhood Watchdogs ‘By Bal Stabler, 191-92 SHHLA President  ‘The EBLUsiform Crime Repors has identified factors which have been determined to affect the volume and typeof erime oecrting from place to place. These faciors include: ~ Population density and degree of wbanization. * Suabiltyof population wth respecto resident's mobilty,commanitypatterns, tnd transient factor. = Modes of trassportation and highway sem. " Beonomtic conditions icing median income and jb availability * Cultural coediions sach as educational, recreational, and religous ‘characteristic. + Effective strength of law enforcement agencies. * Attitudes of etzenry toward crime * Crime paring practices ofthe exizenry ‘Senda Heights i fortuate to have a mumber of hase factors working init favor to keep oar commenity's crime rate at a minimum. Some factors are largely out of ur eontrl, while thers can be paskivelyimpaced hroagh support ofthe Sandia Heights Secarty Patol sod acive levees: ia crime proven efor  Resenrc on other acighborhoods' sezrg efforts for this Cre Prevention ine hasbrought olght the obstacles other neighborhoods face in meeting thei residents  |, | security soeds. Onc of the most active end saccesufl communities within the City of  | Abaquerqueia the ace of nighboroadcxime preveatin isthe Four Hil Vilage Homeomors Assocation Dediented Auociation memborssolunteertobecome pa  | ofthe acighborioeds security free whic patels each weekeod on either Friday oF  Saturday sigh.  Richard McDowall, who corenty isin charge ofthe wolunier patrol, sys ven though the parol as proves tobe a succesfel deterrent o crime in the are, i's beting harder andarder wo recruit vokuteer for patrol day. Switching 14 contact Secarity service that can patrol more hoers and clfer more services seems to be somewhat ineitable in he ner future  ‘The Glenwood Hil area has no oficial or organized security program, However some i percet of the neighborhood's residences subscribe io the security parol services of one patclar contractor that specializes in providing security services to businesses and residential neighborboods throughout the City.  In comparison, Sandia Heights i fortunate to have a professions, well-trained security patrol that ofces on sce and provides comprehensive services solely 4 our ‘community. Ths beneficial arangement i largely arrbutabe toa wise decision by the SHHA Board of Directors back in 1978 io sanction and support the proposed ‘exablichmentof the Sandia Heights Security Parolinanswer tothe community saeed toaupplement services provided by the County Sheriffs Department. Sincethat time, theseearty parolhas bees underthe ownership and management of ourcommunity’s developer, the Sandia Peak Tram Co. The favorable crime rac in our neighborhood Isa uribute tothe joint efforts of the Sheriff's lice and the Sandia Heighs Security Patrol  Besides strengshening lav enforcement andsecuity efforts through support ofthe Sandia Heights Security Patra andthe County Sheriff's Department, we also mest tpecome s Rnowledgeuble and active community of renidonts hat refuses to aceept ime as an inevitable “fact of life” or “sign of ou ies.”  ‘Conminued on page 4  Inmplementation by Beralilo County of ow guidelines foe fund raising act. ties tthe County fre stations resulted in the cancellation of the 1991 Sandia, Heights Homeowners Assocation (SHEA) Holiday Baar,  ‘According 10 the new rules, all pro- ceeds ftom fund raising functions that take place at a Beralilo County Fire Station mast now be turned over tothe County for disbursement. The new guidlines are the renal of County Risk ‘Managements concerns regarding bi bil  The SHHA Holiday Baran was ini ated a number of years ago to benefit participating Sandia Heights arts and the Couaty District ire Staion which seres Sandia Heights and North Al bouguergue Aces, Artist gave ten per eat of thet total proceeds from the bharaae tothe District Station, while the SHHA provided $100 for advertising, publicity in the GRIT nowsletir, and ‘oluaters for planning, sup, aed ow pial  The’ 1990 SHIA Holiday Bazase raised $76.7 for the District 5 Fire Station wich went toward the parchase  ‘8 Keep up the good work! The Sanda Heights community kas maintained its trong participation and support of  the recjelig program despite coatiaued problems wih reaching Quail Run Center duc to the Tramway Improvement Project Reeling Saturday forte nex three months are November 23, December28 and January 25, Bring your reyelabes between 9am. ad 12 nooa othe Qual Ran Cente, 12700 San Rafal  ‘2 There willbe no refuse calleion on Thanksgiving Day (November 28), Chritmas Day (December 25), and New ‘Year’sDay January), Relax willbe picked uponthe day llwing each haiay. A special pickupfor Christmas tae wll be made tno extra charge the week of Januar 6throagh January 10, 1992. Residents are requested  1 place the tees oat with their normal refuse on their scheduled colletion day.  12 TheAlbuquerque Academyhas announced plansto developthe 1/0 ares ocatedalongthe es sie of Tramway ‘Bh, between Glenwood Hie and Sandia Heights, For purposes of developing this property, the Academy has formedihe High Desert investment Corporation, a wholly-onmed taxable subdir ofthe Albuguergoe Academy. High Desert has assembled « planning team comprising cavironmestal constants, land se planers and ‘engincersto asst in the planing and development proces. High Desert tas alread announced that they Wil apply fransexaion othe Cty of Albuquerque, with the fst phase of construction begin in 1998, The SHHA  ‘Bourd of Directors has ben in contact with High Desert and wil ep SHHA members informed regarding the Proposed development plans as they become aallabl or np  Holiday Bazaar Cancelled Due To New County Rules  ‘of medical equipment forthe paramesic  “Bernall County gave short notice cathisnew policy, sotherewas 20 time to find and publicize an alternative loca tin," said Rab Freeman, member of the SHH Boardof Directors and Co-Chair ofthe bazaar. “We hope the County will ‘examine this new policy,” said Lisa Ste- wart, SHA Director and Bazaar Co- ‘Chair, “and belpusfindawaytohavethe  SANDIA HEIGHTS BRIDGE CLUB  Join Us for Bridge!  Laies Daytime Bridge  ‘ed Monday  Sarat sateen Sed Monday  snder condition similar to pat yeas, sae ‘Wsdisappining tthe ass, crafts 2nd iy  seopleandvoluntcerstospendso mach fine and effort planning fortis event,  fndtheahaveitancelled" Rabsaid "A |) Co™Ples Evening Bridge  ole ait who peprd ems to nhs ‘Sate bara vnc se 2c the GRIT (sce page 4). Pease lok it pereen creaudinamnlearonemettotle ~ alook at their work.” nd Wolasetey  Sandia Heights residents who wast to express opinions regarding the ne pi ‘ts governing pubic uso our County's Fc Station shld write County Com smissioner Pat Cassid, One Cie Pla NW, Albuquerque, NM 87108, Deadline for the February "Grit"  The deadline for submiting ade or information forthe February iss2e of ‘The GRIT is Wednesday, Janeary 15, 1952. Please submit all materials 10 Sherry Lombass, 14201 Encantado Ri INE, Albuquergue, NM 87128 275-9112.  "Grit" Circulation “Thine of Theo mn maedtothe  cmt members of the Sandis Heights Homeowsers Astosstion  Comzaunity Artis bles  Thefollowag a nd cat people Baty Bachan 7914092 ~ pepeodienstorcapy sodeisetthe Design: Sess for Cire, colors Needle Work Socings SHEA. Hany: Berar whict wat 1d Cater Ki canceled do o new County regions Nic 1522080 soeralng we of te he sans fo Kare rts. 3065 “ectayTbotried Covea's Books fondraising activities. ‘Wearable Art (Ages 48) atime sche m cgumsct sesiaunar ay gi tom hey have forse ta, Waterton, Grapes ry Wreath and Arrangements ice Benet 27.9701 Db Freeman: 2962977 No Poms: 3965573 i, Ae, Waterelo rists andgaimedSik Serves, Hind Decorated Shits ‘AntClases Avalble ‘loses, Tes  (Leone Reta: 278-8201 ‘Wooden Ornaments Pins, Magnets  ‘We Chase @ >  75h  Lng Russel: 2042583 Special Occasion Grecting Cards, lows, Other Costom Needle Work  Call for FREE ‘Beth Stall: 295-0804 ‘Cleaning Specials! Hand-Smocked Children’s Nighties - os Sandy Udi:298-6991 Compiets & Dependable Porcelain Dolls. Commercial & Residential Cleaning Servi i Se Fy Sire i ‘Warns  ust Aletians oo  . “yy Jena Vorts: 298-9922,  sired" CLEANING SERVICE 296-3033 | Saata Fe Sj Plows and Aprons  Pag  Picture It Framed  INE CUSTOM FRAMING AND AR  (CHARLES FRACE ERTEPTED TRAVEL CONSULTANT & ALisanne Toomey CTC AirLand'Seay& — FIREWOOD. PINON -CEDAR | servant in <i Edward D. Jones & Co!  Doug Ficher  204-4418  Sandia Heights Reident  WARREN AKERSON SDN RTE  age  ri x atom  COGEN  REALTORS®  FRANCINE COGEN  (505) 881-8750 [EteEaenpeeeesd  Income Tax Resins Busines Consuting Financial Statements  299-1949  General Housecleaning  Dependable and Honest  LITA LARRANAGA  898-6464  Page 6  Judi's Studio (05) 296-4867 + PRES LANCE prTERIORS “MSTALLICLEAF PAINTINGS * SILK DESIONS Judi Foster, Owner 20 ape CUM Apere M2  STATE Fan msuawice companies cchnTOn eno  John N. Gabaidon  Jo0 mange Bam ne es anmna  (606) 290-0063  Hancy Eckert Jobos Mas intucor- Pare Specie,  1826 Trarnway Terace Loop NE ‘Abuquergue, NM 87122  —— &  WZ Ihe Vaughan company  oo Yea Pree of “Cosungs”  STUCCO SERVICES DEPENDABLE WORKMANSHIP  Just South of Paseo del Norte (823-5100)  : DAN aNELTOR JURA ABO BV. esis tes 2021 ROMANE. 206-3400 MGLODEROUE MeWricsico me oKaen ean Lena 2018 ‘av OF TE GRACE LUTHERAN CHURCH Seupilfad neces eet een | AVOUL your whole heart. (Jer. 29:13) ae rsh: Senday Sehoat con (ursery Avaitable) Ssarieg —_wnnne woOD oa 296-9203 free On Eubank Exod catalogue  "Smythe ied Sharon McColl, but I've decided 9 use another Brotr for 91.”  IN 1991 AS ALWAYS  There must be one Broker on your interview list!  SHARON McCOLLUM  ALBUQUERQUE'S REAL ESTATE BROKER  > The Vaughan Company  RZ Re  Selle City Lights from Stadia Hojghts / * $6.3 Million 1990 Sales } * One of TOP TEN Realtors in Albuquerque + Sandia Heights Resident & Neighbor ‘  Page  THEVI  shout that wonderful sand shu Dales ‘copasea which isnt a sage atl Is Samal flgwers are so mameroas aod such abeiiant prple that makes asplenda show against the rosy sand. Wath the thinnest of leaves and twigs, it tends to fade ito the background of our other sey shrubs during the res of the year stilt goes about thejob of hong the Sand in place,  Vat When Zane Grey wrote “Riders ofthe  Purple Sapo", he formed an indelible 1  (out blury image in American minds ‘  limitless plain and deserts covered with  sagebrush. He was a writer, nct a  botanist, and did't really say what be  meant by “sagebrush.” To. him -  ‘sagebrush probably included all the 1%  eter td rece ong (thers. This last mie cones ier iaponadsctetic crc wen, Ben. ‘0 be had plenty of room 4 0am, Teoipent  Zane Gites pape sage was probably the low, shrub, evergreen gray bal In Utah, purple sage erst bask sabia, Sahin don, which is showy mint, Eomigtha inc tom the Purpleandbcactfuiaioom Misfound puri ast othe clye hea ke Now {the western exc version dest seem purple to Washingoo through Mobo and Utah me atall Team cali Temssineleat ‘Aisonabut a ntdinthe wilin New Leusapl esans purl sage.” Mesico a8 far as can find. Dusing Anyway, "perp sge” cas iret ‘Aupot and September, people refer to thing to ren people “ple sage” looming along. the Too, the term sape has gies wel highway car Blenand ost on Highway mined up sinc ts wed for Amis ‘HiowardZiabuttheyetalyarctallng (Members of the slower fami), fr  Sabi bush mints and bedge nettles (al ‘members ofthe mint fail) ok forthe square dems)  ‘The Amis ar the plans we fist think of when we say sages meaning ‘Sagebrush. Three are common inthe  ‘fother some of hem quite stall bt all {ough with aromatic leaves. The wild ‘aeragre (4 deacuncul) is ound isthe ‘Sodus andthe Mancasos.  ‘Both sand sagebrush and fringed sagebradh ae very useful garden plans imour area. The snd sagebrush with its fe lenescarred on curing tances ccxremey handsome, (Look fori all ‘ret the West Mesa and om the 839 to Alamogordo) Fringed sagebrush grows ‘a through the Sandia foothils. (Some fources ty it is an indication of ‘overprazing) Its ground bugging for smooth year sending up sive oor sikesis the summer. [also am load of the preyleafed Aatemiia Inosicians ‘which peed litle mote water tha the ceraoedinariy drought tolerant tinged ‘Sgcbranh hat rewards is owners wth 2 larger plant and rwo-footsiber Hoo sqikes Nex time you need atough, grey ‘Eafe plant for your garden, comer one ofthese Artemisia  ‘And you Zane Grey experts out here tell me if you know for sure what Zane meant by “sage.” Hd be fun o find out.  Jean Heflin  “That Certain Something: How Flowers Altract Insets For Poiation wil ‘be the topic ofa presentation by Carol Dodson ofthe University of New ‘Mexico a the Wednesday, November 20 mectng ofthe Wildower Cub.  || Themectingis scheduled for7:30pm. at Marge Huber’, 419Live Oak.  A ecent membership recrutmeat efor brought cub membership wp 038, families residences. Annual memberkip doce are jt $5, and everyone fs ‘elcome to join For more information on cub acti, Cal Bev Grady at SAT,  Sandia Heights Wildflower Club of | | |  Sandia Heights | mssoveton  ‘Board of Directors Meetings |  2nd Wednesday |  | eactitonn |  | 70pm |  Paseo del None  Fre Seon  mee |  Groves/ Wray  BASSOCIATES  0. Aa Sas tt a a  ‘Security Patrol  Continued from page 1  The Sandia Heights Security Pazol provides a comprehen ‘iv list of serves to its subscribers and responds to « wide variety of needs and requess (See lst of 1991 year-to-date patrol call). Of particular value isthe special perl service ‘Provided (opon request) oaresideaceduringihe homeowne!s ‘shueoee. Proof of Sandia Heights Seeurc/ constant presence ‘droughouthe community sie pavolveaice odometer wich records an average of 000 to 000 patrol miles per month ‘The security paol also serves as 2 spacer and walle controler for the Couatys Distt 5 Fre Deparimest. In September, prompt radio noification of Disc 3 bya patch ling security officer who sptted smok= coming foes rsi- ence ia Unk 18 accompanied by traf control assistance ‘rough the Tramway Bla. consrucion, elped to insure rapid response by ire ghters and minimized demage tothe  ‘Toreports crime or crime‘in-pogress residents should call ‘the County beri the Shrifsoffice auicmascllynoifiesthe ‘Sandia Heights Security Petrol of any crime problems withia ‘he community. Subscribers othe Secury Patrol Service also can acceas the service directly via a mobile phoae, message beeper, or the main ofc,  For more information about security services, benefits, and subscription foes contact Judy Turner at the Sandia Fights Services office (296-9585),  SECURITY PATROL CALLS  an -Sopt, 1991  + Recorded by APO Ce Arle Unt "Lareny”  "smote asa a am cs rsa i ‘twat ramus aman Pere #20 weapon ae PO Dee stn  ™ Bath Remodeling  = Kitchen Remodeling = Painting  ™ Window Replacement = Room Additions  = Storage Added  = Repair & Maintenance  ~-Call now for completion in time for the holidays!  266-3171  Property And Land Services, inc.  Ue. No, 28876  Bonded « Insured  State Redistricting Affects Sandia Heights  By Kip Nicdly State Representative, istic 31  ‘Ase ener atthe late fl/etly winter months, Pike to take this opportunity to update you on afew ise facing our District and your busines And, I appreciated the response, hone call ndletrs tha wererecemedatr the las coma {tis my obligation and promise to atend Lo your concer and your own participation, suggestions, and invobement are almays weleome  We finished redutricing in mid-September, a process ‘mandated by the US. Goveeamest alter the Cessus i ‘completed cory ten years, You wil remain in US. ‘Congrestional Dist Land Sat Senate Distic21. However, ‘oeginning in 1993, there a change im your State Repeesestaive/Hoose District. As the incembeat in District ‘31 reget (rom my view) that wil ot be representing most ‘fSandia Heights.  Due tothe large population increase since 1980, District 31 veascattyapprouimutch W¢unthaincloded mestofSandia eights nd all the East Mocetaia Region (Tjeras, Code Gest, te). Thove of you who lve north of (apprax) San ‘Bernadino willbe i District 3 currently represented by Mark (Caruso. And, many precinct sumbers and boundaries have changed. You willbe notified of those a well athe possible ‘new voting locations a they become avalale,  The topic which sparked the most iterest and outrage recently was the S100 fe imposed ty the NIM, Taxation and Revenge Department on Non-Tarable Transaction {Cenifcates (TTC). Thistx (lt scallitwhatts)isa“one- tim (aeppovely) aff, andthe NTTC regtration s good fe four years The rereistration fee aftr four years will apparently not be imposed.  ‘This i a particular burden on small businesses (which coestitte moat hosineucs in our State), and there wil ‘Sefnitey be abil itrodaced inthe 1992 Lepilatve Sesion (in January) o try and repeal, change, or rebate this tax.  Again. thank your ging me the oppetanity to repeseat oun his Disc (31), and feel free w all me aaytine 292 {5577 ox write me a 119 Laurel Laop NE, $7122.  Support Your Grit Advertisers!  Page 12  ‘SHHA Seeks Land For County Park  ‘The SHHA Board of Directors receaty vised with representatives from Bernalilo County Parks & Recreation ‘24 County Commissioner Parics Cassidy to explore the possibilty of dexignating Sandia Heights Park asa County park, Inorder toreceive financial acsistance wih park maintenance.  ‘The Homeowners. Association's expenses for lease and ‘maintenance of Sandia Heighis Pak are expected to exceed ‘$15,000 during the 1991-92 fiscal ear. In adition, the demand ‘pla aie esincr common sopethathe reeds can not be met by a sage, private  Since the parks loctd of and beeing the Sandia Pueblo (eated by the Sandie Peak Tram Co. and then sb- leased bythe SHEA), the County attorney’ office ruled as. follows: “Bernalile County bas 20 legal power to pay for nance fx uk nt cme td dete or  ‘The SHHA Board wil be puscing with Pat Cassidy the sequistion of land for consirsction of» County park i our fee, However sine a0 County funds are avaiable for  sequistionof parkland Northeast f-25 benevolent pertons/ parties who wish to donate lad for park should contact Pat Cassidy (768-4217.  ‘Aspecialthanksgoesoutto Patrica Cassdylorhertimeand  FIREPLACE ENCLOSURES KIVA- RECTANGULAR OVAL ‘GLASS . SCREEN  FOR GAS LOGS OR WOODBURNING HEAT STAYS IN’ ROOM NOT UP CHIMNEY  eee eee  ORNAMENTAL IRON WORK AALS aazence ‘STAIR BANHZTERS ELECTRIC STANCE GAN DECORATIVE FABEAGE GATES  © BAAD DIBPLAYE QUTOOOR /MEDOOR FURNITURE FENCE & WALL WEERTS WIND-OPERATED ART Lawre SCULPTURE  STEEL RIVER ARTISANS  855-0599  | } IMAGINATION + CRAFT = SATISFACTION | | |  Los Lunas New Mexico Page 13  Crime Prevention Tips From Tramway Project The Sandia Heights eeu Patrol Phase I Crime prevention actully is more Asis ToSherif Amd Security Patol 40% Complete important than rine fighting became tHe pow to patrol every | stops problems heer they coer. —_seighborhood,2¢bours day. Youcan | ‘By Parca Cassy 1, Mideast cant helpropesest | couny Common, it ¢ Get_An_Alacm Stem Use Ke oar comm renee  auhflly: Alarm stems are sound investment in crime prevention. It purchasing a stems simply ou ofthe uestion, put sicker in very window saying you have an alarm and install a fae alarm box  FoumA_Neishborhood_Watch Pragram AmongtheW sbdivsonsand 1 residences in Sapa Height, only ‘one Neighborhood Watch programy has ‘been extahlihed Studies have shows ‘that Watch programs typically redace residential Dergares, vandalism, and thefts from automobiles by 30% over a two-year period. Contact Ray Brads ith the County Sherif ollce (168-4160) t0 find out” more information aboot ‘Neighborhood Watch Repost_Incdences_Of_Crime_Ta ‘County Sherill_ And Secsrity Patt. Even thoogh this may seem cbvions, ‘many seemingh minor crimes such as ‘sandal or stolen cat prt vwareported, When” ctimes area reported, the sherfs deputies and security officers dont know they need to ‘wach aputicaar area more closely. ‘Repu Suspicious Vohicks (Person!  ‘Seed Your Garage Dooe_Clocd | | ery much appreciate ths oppor Garage doce shoal te closed ules | qty gonrbute to your peblicatoa.  ou ae actualy weknginthe garage oF | ope that his bi upton the Tras ‘cary. Many garage dots areleftopes | ay Projet wil eof interest 1 you. 1 ‘tileresdeas are outing making | 6h forward to sharing ote informa {quiriptothe store. Thistntesthct-| Gon ig opening ros of the GRIT Park Vohices JaGaagss Lack Th | how atten in your area and/or ants These acto put eB | Conny goeraent naes which map oveaight sin the garage. Vehicles | impact your neighborhoods  faked in driveways or on the ret | ("Pet You ne  Should have the windows wp and the | The ycomtracion of Tramway Blvd  (oor che. from Montgomery t Pasco del Nor, ‘inst Har Holi Scson- Dow | Sop ln apes a shout perce leave pest inacat parked oto | Complete. The int pase ths work, infllvewalanywindomct your howe. | Contating of ping and scurs for ‘Use Timers Wan Yours Ou OL | jai of the uate roadway with ayn. Put timers on Bouse lets a | pearing competion and wil De open 10 ratiooeTV. Ustinersaroomsthatre | fae by ite November At that ine, ‘cco ile reopened at Mani and sams Pak Rd, and biteraton of {he a oda il bein  Install And Use Deadbolt Locks On ate Daur A propery insted deadbolt and jam are great deterrents. ‘Also in mid-November, Academy  ‘Nui The Seer Raval When You | pie immediacy” wex cl Tramway ‘Leave Town mene ick UP | Blvd. willbe closed for not more than two sevspapers; watch for “swspious | eels while the permaneat Tamay/ fersemandvehices checktovee 9M | Kesdemy interie,  comurcted Smers are working, ete. ‘Traffic will be detoured during this pe-  rod ia Spainand Lowell. The media and the seighborkood associations will be ladited when the exact closure date is  BEST CHOICE |, Sovteoxensorancnss,  ‘Sandia eights as sero tema ‘hoe-term detoers at various stages of ‘0 ordinary real ate aes Max Src vol.  ‘onesent ne of Abuguergues 1p te producers, tamed wih the erowned H. Parmege esky, offers you Real Fate xperise and yea experince  Max Sanche lives im Sandi Heights, loves Sana Heigham  now the werrtory Iie was bis backyard  bclgsrd For peeasonal sevice and nt award wining rls  “The overall schedule calls for comple tion ofthis new thee-mile roadway by ‘October, 192 The inal product wile  ae, dsded roadway sila 19 gray Bid south of Montgomery.  ‘boamee 6s is  all Me when you buy sel in Seda High. | with cow brign srecares ot the Bear  Max anche the Sada Height Speci |  {and South Dowingo Baca Arroyos.  H. PARNEGG seston and comment, especialy  Oe: 680211 any mater rogiing immedateates- tion, are welcame. Please contact the Coomy Projet Offic at 29-7016 ‘rime asa problem only in “ther people's neighborhoods.” “Tawniton musta poucre eae ate ilized by other neighborhoods, ike the Four Mis Vilage Homeowners Association which dow offers a $1000 reward fot {aformatoa eading tte arrest snd comiction of persons who oan crimes i new communi).  “Reverse the trend toward aeighbor anonymity, Take pide {nknowing ourneighbors ving patterns and looking fez each ‘thers welfare, safety, and secur, while sl respecting one math’ ih to pny  the developmect of Tramway Bi. and the impending evelopmiest of the Albuquerque Acadeny land immedately tothe South, Sendia Heigts sno longer hat communicy “a  ° wortauy aire veepplng 2G tnleetng’ services | avsr Cars ¢ Vise heaped i] ‘he two-lane rod, way outa the base of the mouziin™” We 91 Big aor Aldge cizele  00a willbe a Couaty community immediate adjacet othe Saye Aaa cotinine pul  | inion dons eo meaiacang |  (TH aur ures ¢ cumZEMAS Zor! | Soncachag Den 6 maryJo accarsay YS i ime. Now eth ime to increas or vgianee, paeation  and support of crane tion and ri a of cine preesion and eety see 20 | ‘tnaure our safe, secure quality of ile in Sandia Heights. eee a!  ANNOUNCING  Sandia Heights Premiere Properties For Sale  SHARON MSCOLLOM is dedicated X76 Qu mun Cl NE San eg Cay Co, to providing outstanding Light, brs open Nonpes. Hdd caine, geared real estate service to chen, ceamis le Noor qualiy woodwork end grat views. the moet iaaportant S yeas young - #4068, £25.99) person fm the ‘Call Skaror MeColium 295-3009, world. 177 Laarel Place NRA re Bd. Quali and personality in s wondedi seting. Pesoealy pis tcodes some curved You ‘oe wali, igh beamed callings, sepwate MB Sui, vow  ‘eck, wonderful views lovey prvaie yard and. pool, views of 12 Mittion Deliars fe & owns yh end snes, #8880210  \aaracion Peter: Over 1600 Home wostin Do you have a friend, co-worker moving to Sandia Heights? Pleas ol im abou these homes or cl us~ ee ae ee Ooms: ‘we'll mail hem brochures/photos or maka an appt. to show.  — Sharon McCollum  Vaughan Estate Properties 293-3000/822-0080  Page 15  Non—Commercial Advertising  A con pied fan ac th fom me of eS Heh Hamann Aco, Nom commer a  ‘ome Svcs tang St yn FS acon! ment tPA at  ‘Sapees vac otaeanan fe ecm See at ma capt ois Coney abt “alate atts hme och ome Cal SS ne  HOUSE MFTER wae cao jr base: | PET LOVERAND ROUSE KEEPER. Doyo ‘ans, te ne whae jor Ou of tom | std qarpeweahotend/or fen a? Cal Repanat: bi UNG set sod Sanaa | Seubert Test abot cet Heo ret Refrce mash Comnct | your hane tyr we oe Barwon  ROE ING Gay em at Seema ag Rebs ncn Cab At Peete Soe  URE CARE ERIC ang a Fk ‘stomp aur nteag mes tn epee Feet. ana noats) The pes ‘hy tepmingen sence gee Cat ‘Toke Ra  ‘Dede WALTING AND CUEING peme7  ‘Soaps ae. Ca one Be ‘EEDA RABY SETTERS Ga ny Fanaa aastadst Fpereced ane Aes Eeapomtne Tat  PERIENCE «AD RELIG any SITTUN aod home ater hen you ae oto tenn 1 lan sma og cae jshanit menpeseaedmsnasr Cathars Src ages) = Bh  SRARNCED OY STERN pow tee Tames Fe og te eon 8 case  seas nop cat ea Mie a1) acter aan  Sete Koa ag 15) se 8S Wee mb eo oe ake ml He ‘Tits ctomenaenning te ICA  eras oo Eabraene  TSO PACKING MATERIALS. Home bod Se gpe nateserepony en por ‘Siren pendants tt eo  ‘Symp nce fem ae pean ‘xan ope 1) a 2.0, {CDOS for Mano Mar ‘SHHA Community Coffees  tate grr et ita a ha ammuetycofeo Mav ut ae D2 2, you owes Sys pan amens wane carb nny "Catem Sos Soe sant ys none tan ahve tote oyu nes oe  "Taryons mcecons wane, Novomoe 20194124600 Wadena. Januaty 15, 10am 12 noon ‘athe hamess Rab Pa “te homeo sey Rae 131g hom age ‘acecu ‘sear Ea)  ‘Sag nor pared ee 0A  Wotdey Bane witb on oe  Prince of Peace Catholic  community |  PROFESSIONAL sin too REMODELING jill Som  Sandia Hhights Homan SHHA. THE  ALBUQUERQUE, N  oo Perens  2 Renae wt e722 