The SHHA's new executive team, led by President Woody Farber, is elaborating on the past achievements and has outlined a Strategic Planning process that prioritizes serving the Sandia Heights residents' ever changing needs. Key initiatives include: Community Service & Membership Committee, chaired by Hugh Prather, is processing ideas gathered from breakout sessions for possible implementation. Creation of a Sandia Heights evacuation plan by a special committee, aiming to raise awareness, develop community notification and evacuation strategies, promote individual preparation actions, and liaise with government resources. The Publications and Communications committee is actively seeking volunteers in areas such as writing, editing, and webpage design. In response to multiple violations, residents are reminded to respect regulations such as those relating to RV/Pop up Camper Trailers, exterior alterations, and trash/debris accumulation. Bernalillo County Commission and U.S. Forest Service have imposed restrictions on open fires, campfires, smoking, and firework use due to increasing wildfire risks. To prepare for wildfire threats, a Wildfire Preparedness Planning Committee (WPPC) is developing plans to minimize damage and ensure residents' safe evacuation. The SHHA office is enhancing its website for residents' improved use and is focusing on approved development projects. Events such as trash cleanup are organized by the SHHA Parks & Safety Committee for maintenance and beautification purposes. The community is encouraged to participate in various activities, including a photo contest for the 2019 Sandia Heights Resident Guide, sharing stories about ‘The GRIT’, the annual studio art tour by the Sandia Heights Artists, and joining the New Mexico Symphonic Youth Chorus.. SHHA members can enjoy certain exclusive benefits and participate in local events like "Cork & Fork". The office which provides certain free services to members will be closed on May 28, in observance of Memorial Day.