The SHHA has several updates for the community: There will be a "Meet and Greet" session with Sheriff Justin Dunlap from the Bernalillo County Sheriff’s Department on Thursday, May 12 at the Church of the Good Shepherd. Sandia Heights Services will also present to provide information about patrol efforts and safety resources. National Weather Service has issued warnings about increased fire danger. Residents near the Cibola National Forest and arroyos should report any fires promptly to dispatch and evacuate if necessary. Bear attractants should be kept to a minimum now that bears are coming out of hibernation. Precautions include securing garbage and feeding pets indoors. Pedestrian safety, especially for children, should be a community priority. Residents should follow state law by walking on the left side of the road facing traffic, wearing high visibility attire, and using lights when walking before sunrise or after sunset. The agreement has been reached on the Hawks Landing Development, also known as the Mhoon Property, that involves construction of 34 to 35 homes, including townhouses, and a walking path. SHHA will oversee the enforcement of the similar Covenants to the North Tramway Estates covenants upon completion. The Q&As from the SHHA February Annual and Town Hall Meetings are available on the SHHA website until the end of May 2016. Meetings are open to all members who have an interest. The Covenant Support Committee (CSC) reminds residents of regulations on long term parking of RVs, travel trailers, and boats to preserve community aesthetics. Residents should educate themselves before hiring professionals for home improvement projects to avoid potential consequences from engaging unlicensed and uninsured contractors. The ACC Activity Log lists neighbourhood construction updates, including contractor experiences. Interested individuals can contact Linda Mason at lindamason307@gmail.com or 505 554 2934. Safety vests for personal safety are available for $2 at the SHHA office, and tram passes are $5 for members. SHHA membership cards also offer discounts at various companies. For more details about these updates, residents can visit the SHHA website.