County Commissioner Tim Cummins has assured the SHHA that trucks will not be allowed on Tramway due to Federal Regulations, deed and Sandia Pueblo restrictions. The Urban County Charter Commission, chaired by Commissioner Barbara Seward and represented by Sandia Heights resident, Ray Padilla, operates smoothly. Commissioner suggests visiting the Bernalillo County web page for the latest news and reports. Bernalillo County and Albuquerque will start governmental reform with "urban county" initiative which aims to enact home rule charter. SHHA has gained "Recognition Status" by Bernalillo County. The County Parks Department collaborate with architects on designing a park in the Cedar Canyon neighborhood. Provincial funding of $350,000 via a bill introduced by Representative Robert M. Burpo is necessary for the park design and construction in 2001 and 2002. Community information such as the 2001 Resident Guide, events, community service committee updates, and representative Burpo's contacts are shared with the Sandia Heights citizens. Architectural Control Committee reviews construction and renovating applications and upkeeps the unique architectural outlook of Sandia Heights community. Sandia Heights launched a new website for homeowner community for better communication and convenience. Recent concerns about safety due to poor visibility caused by overgrown vegetation and speeding motorists are being addressed by the Safety Committee of Sandia Heights, under Glenn Kuswa’s leadership. A "Shared Vision" meeting is on track to talk about community growth and roadways. There would be an SHHA hosted holiday open house for community members. The Parks, New Development, and Government Liaison Committee plan to backtrack a resolution for a master trail system plan. To better serve SHHA members, the board discussed goals such as parks, traffic safety, and community center. New member requests for the SHHA board are being sought to handle various areas such as advertising, planning, executing functions, legal undertakings, and more. Financial reports are shared for transparency. Local bond issue for a park's development, ongoing lawsuit related to Eagle Ridge, and potential inclusion of additional areas ( Quail Ridge and Sandia Colony) into SHHA are under consideration. SHHA publication features ads from member's children and hosts social, educational, and religious programs. Security in Sandia Heights is vigilant and responds to security concerns, even minor issues. SHHA encourages residents to address complaints to appropriate authorities and only contact them if in need of directing complaints to suitable authorities.