SHHA is devoted to increasing community engagement, maintaining the unique characteristics of the Sandia Heights community, and preserving its charm. This year, 12 new members joined the SHHA board, and the goal for the next year is to have representation from all districts. SHHA is focused on essential projects like maintaining the SHHA website and GRIT newsletter, and restrains water consuming projects due to area's water scarcity. Changes in the community's covenants can occur through collective member activity. Recent issues include loose pets and increased vandalism; safeguards are in place for responsible parties. The demanding yet rewarding volunteer role of an SHHA board member is respected. Architectural Control Committee (ACC) oversees construction projects for compliance and their authority was recently upheld in court. The Traffic and Safety committee focuses on neighborhood safety, including traffic regulation through strategies like speed bumps. A crime survey will be sent to residents to contribute towards crime prevention. The treasurer's report revealed a financial reorganization plan and the association aims to provide cost effective service. Community and Bob Christman engaged in discussions with county officials for improvement plans for Cedar Hill Park. Communications and Publications Committee and Community Service and Membership Committee, carry out different roles including making publications and organizing social events respectively. Due to the enormity of their responsibilities, the Community Service, Membership and Communications Committees were split for better operation. Covenant Support Committee (CSC) educates residents about covenant violations, encourages direct communication, and has made improvements in addressing issues. Sandia Heights Wildflower Club held the successful Annual Garden Walk. Rewards have been offered for information regarding major vandalism and arson. Expert design services are available for property remodeling or new home construction.