The October November 2001 issue of Grit, the Heights Homeowners Association newsletter, paid tribute to the 9/11 victims, emphasized on the Architectural Control Committee’s (ACC) role in maintaining the residences' unified aesthetic within Sandia Heights, and outlined the ACC's guidelines on exterior color palettes. It also reflected on the Special Election for the Urban County Charter, which sought to provide the county more independence, as well as clarified that the Urban County Charter wasn't intended to merge Bernalillo County and Albuquerque City. Further, the SHHA’s accomplishments and benefits along with the covenants that govern the residents of different subdivisions were discussed. The newsletter highlighted residential concerns like trash disposal, unwanted items and their impact on property enjoyment, and need for systemic addressal of these topics. Traffic safety with expected development of a park was a chief concern and speeding was flagged as a potentially hazardous issue. An appeal was made for feedback from members and the need for community involvement, and a proposed email notification system for security issues was discussed. The newsletter also featured advertisements for Brazos Lodge and Rentals, Computer courses for adults, outdoor pottery sales, Church of the Good Shepherd, and the principles of the Bien Mur Indian Market Center. The Urban County Charter Commission’s proposal, putting forth for a special election to gain Bernalillo County a home rule status was spotlighted. It mentioned recent mail thefts in Sandia Heights and the role of the Sandia Heights Security in safeguarding the residences while urging residents to evaluate their household lighting for increased security. The newsletter also announced the upcoming closure of the SHHA Office for the holidays and a holiday initiative led by the Membership/Community Service Committee known as "Lights in the Heights," offering discounted Luminarias to imbibe a festive spirit. Information was given concerning purchase and pick up of the Luminarias from Anderson Organizing Systems and the SHHA office, and the residents were encouraged to share advice on display methods.