In November, the SHHA highlighted the initiation of a recycling pilot program and an increase in the availability of Tram passes for its members, from four to six per day, due to the program's success. A warm welcome was extended to a new board member, Melissa Puckett, and the association called for more volunteers to join the board and committees. These ongoing efforts intersected with their continual engagement with county representatives for community development works like road maintenance. Notable points in their combined initiative include: Discussion of road maintenance improvements with Bernalillo County Public Works Division's Director, Dave Mitchell. An overview of the association's fiscal details and its service initiatives such as providing free notary public services. Safety pointers for pedestrians and homeowners about maintaining their properties and the need for visitors to maintain control over their dogs. Notifications about scheduled closures for Tram maintenance and upcoming events. Reinforcing community involvement, SHHA Commissioner Michael Wiener updated residents on several topics like the impending decision on the Proposed Condemnation of the 10 acre Mhoon Property, Bernalillo County's Weed Abatement Ordinance, new Outdoor Concert Ordinance, and the Eubank Boulevard expansion plans. The community awareness against unchecked tree growth, especially against the Siberian Elm, is gaining momentum due to the many negative effects it brings. The association also granted several residential improvement permissions. The SHHA membership cards offer benefits including quicker entry to SHHA events and merchant benefits online. Detailed local activities such as the calling for entries for the annual photo contest, a meeting with the Sandia Heights Wildflower Club, and a unique Christmas Home Tour are highlighted. Other upcoming events include a holiday sale featuring artwork from Sandia Heights artists and a Thanksgiving Day gathering organized by the Singles of Sandia Heights. Furthermore, residents are reminded of the recycling pilot program which does not accept glass or Styrofoam, but other recyclable materials in clear plastic bags. Information about hazardous waste disposal is also provided as part of the program.