May 4, 1983  HOMFDWNERS I ASSOCIATION  NEWSLE'ITER  Dear Sandia Heights Homeowner,  Please find enclosed a nu:nber of items which should be of interest to you. First  of all, you are urged to attend the annual May meeting at which time new- Board of Director members are elected.  The NEXT GENERAL MEEI'ING will be:  Saturday - May 21st, 1983  10:30 A.M. at the Sandia Heights Firehouse  Please come prepared with the names of qualified, energetic nominees who  are wi 11 fog to serve 0!1.--:the Homeowners' -~ee~s.---Th.Ber'Fle~a'Hr~e~ewveH-----------­ vacancies:  Rab Freeman,  Bob Hoff er - who is moving away after several years of dedicated service  as Homeowners' Treasurer.  We wish Bob well and thank him  very much for his efforts.  Also, in the May 21st . agenda will be discussion of:  • Proposal to hire Executive Vice President to work for the  board to:  1. Lobby for Sandia Heights  2. Attend city and cotmty meetings  3. Handle covenant violations  •Phone/computer infonnation service proposal  •Satellite receiver guidelines  SPRitiG CLEAN-UP DAYS:  May 21 and May 22, Saturday and Slmday are designated as Sandia Heights  CLEAN-UP DAYS.  Where:  Your property plus 50 yards up and down road  How:  Your hired hand, assorted kids, or yourself  Pick up:  Put bags (yours) full of other trash along with your  regular garbage for pick-up on Monday or Tuesday  Unusual: If you have a dead tree or an extra large btmdle  of junk, simply call during business hours, the week  before, (8:30-5:00 Monday thru Friday) and a truck  will come and pick it up, free of charge.  You might wonder where all the trash comes from, whether it be on the wind from  far away, or from dogs tearing into garbage bags, or from construction projects.  All of these contribute.  One source you might not be aware of is our own school  children.  One afternoon as I followed a school bus for about a half mile on  Live Oak, children were tossing papers, ltmch wrappings and bags out the bus windows  the entire distance.  Equally startling was the observation that when students got off the bus and  passed by the trash blowing arol.llld at their feet, they were totally oblivious.  Participation in a pick-up day might be an educational experience for them and  instill into them some pride in their neighborhood.  UPDATE ON "COUNTY LINE" LIQUOR LICENSE APPLICATION:  At an Albuquerque hearing on February 4th, that approximately 125 Sandia Heights  residents struggled through a snow stonn to attend, the "Cotm.ty Line" application  was denied.  1b.e restaurant has appealed this decision.  Sandia Heights residents  who opposed this restaurant liquor license, including your Homeowners' Board  of Directors, owe a debt of thanks to an effective force of residents who,  mder Randy Williams , mobilized, retained Lawyer Skeet McCulloch, contributed  cash, and so far have successfully-resisted the building of "The Cotm.ty Line"  Lotmge Restaurant at Trarnway Boulevard and Tramway Lane.  NOTICE:  :ooG AND CAT OWNERS  Effective inrnediately, the Bernalillo Collllty Animal Control personnel will  be making twice-a-week random visits to Sandia Heights.  Any stray animals  ·11 be impol.lllded and transported t.o the.City's Los Altos .Animal Control  Center at 8920 Lomas Boulevard, N. E.  There is a leash law in Sandia Heights.  As many of you have indicated to  us, there is a serious problem with dogs and cats habitually nmning loose.  With the advent of bubonic plague season, the possibility of serious rabies  outbreak, with joggers and children being rrenaced by packs of dogs nmning loose,  with the increasing likelihood of a serious attack on an individual, with the  decimation of native quail, roadrunners, and other birds by marauding cats,  and with the increasing litter frorn destroyed garbage bags, we are sure you will  agree that the animal problem is becoming an increasingly serious one.  Your  Homeowners' Board of Directors believes that without the cooperation of all  pet owners we really can't solve the problem.  Nevertheless, we have arranged  with Mr. Gene Clements, of the Cotm.ty's Environmental Health Office, that  a patrol will be conducted on a random basis twice a week.  Furthennore, there  is the possibility that after-hours and weekend patrols will be possible in  the near future. Also, for those of you who honestly believe you have a  problem.with a specific animal, please try the following:  Call the Cotm.ty Animal Control Office @ 766-4210  Give specific informa_tion as to the expected time this animal is on the  loose and where.  Mr. Clements has promised that the Animal Control  people will respond. If you wish to claim an impomded animal, you  must pay the following fees:  First Offense  $15.00  Second Offense - $25.00  Third Offense  $35.00  (Plus $3. 00 per animal for boarding, plus license and shot fees  if needed.) You have four (4) days to claim the animal.  Finally, the fees to pick-up your animal may be raised to $50.00 and up,  if the City Col.lllcil accepts the City's Animal Control Office's recorrmendation.  CALL FDR VOLUNTEERS!  IDTES FROM THE SANDIA HEIGHTS VOLUNTEER  FIRE DEPARTMENT  Now that the wood-heating season is over, the Fire Department urges all residents  to have their chirrn:leys and stove pipes cleaned.  The accumulation of soot and  pitch not only restricts a proper draft but also presents a serious fire hazard.  There have been a number of flue fire explosions in Sandia Heights this winter,  during which, due to the quick response by the Fire Depart:rrent, very little  damage was sustained. There are a m.miber of chimney sweep c6mpanies listed  on pages 231 and 232 of the Yell<J# Pages.  Another fire hazard which will be present in the surrmer months will be the  improper disposal of barbeque coals. It is recorrmended the coals be dumped  -----m-~e ground and doused with water.  Do not]3tl~asfte""S_,,,or---------­ barbeque coals into a plastic garbage can.  An incident of this nature last  year nearly caused a serious residential fire.  The Sandia Heights Voltmteer Fire Departm2tl.t was organized some fifteen years  ago by members of the ccmmmity who were willing to give of their time to  attend training drills and respond to emergency situations.  In the last two  years, due to Voltmteers being transferred by their companies, the force has  been reduced to one Cotmty paid fireman and nine trained Voltmteers.  During the  day not all of the trained Voltmteers are available, due to their employment  or school hours.  The paid Fireman is only on duty from 7 Af1 to 5PM during the  week.  The officers of the Fire Depart:rrent are making an urgent request to the men  and wa:nen of Sandia Heights to seriously consider giving of their time to this  commmity ftmction. All protective clothing, boots, he1met and other needed  items are furnished by the Fire Department.  Training drills are currently  held every other Saturday from 9Af1 to 12PM.  For more infonnation, please  call the Training Officer at 292-3335.  In the event of a fire or medical emergency please do not delay or  hesitate to call 294-4011 for assistance.  We would rather respond to many  small situations instead of one large involvement resulting from a delayed call.  NOTE:  Please be sure your house numbers are highly visible as an aid to  - -ern.ergency vefiicles.  . - - - .  - LCB  SUMMARY OF LAST GENERAL MEETING (February 26, 1983)  Here is a short surrrnary of some of the items presented and discussed at the  last general meeting.  Over 600 people attended.  1. Questiormaire results - over 100 of you responded to our questiormaire.  As you can see from the following graphs, zoning issues were of greatest  interest to most of you.  (Items were rated on a scale of 1-10 with ten  being the most important and 1 being least in importance.)  From the rest of the results you can see that opinion was divided.  However, we conclude from this questionnaire that your Board of Directors  should fight, and in this order:  1) against adverse zone changes,  2) for enhanced safety on Tramvay, 3) against water rate increases,  4) against covenant violations and,  5) for road improvements within  Sandia Heights.  ~·  10  I  ..._  !J  "I  7'  '  7  Ii'  ~  ID  Q.i  ,  n  ,,  I  '- '3  ~  5  '  7  ;  'f  IO  Q.4  Q,,  In addition, many residents were for increased security coverage, registered  bitter canplaints against unleashed animals, called attention to motor bike  noise and property damage, and canplained about lack of covenant enforcement,  and speed limit enforcement within the Heights.  2.  3.  Status of Restaurant Issue - R. Williams reviewed the progress of the  figh.T against the ltqa.c:rr:·--li--c-ense--;--'fh.ere-was-scrne-cenfusioo--over~t:he -- position that the Homeowners' Association :&lard of Directors had  taken.  The board had previously decided by vote: 1) to support the  already-formed group and to oppose the restaurant and liquor license,  2) all board rranbers available signed the petitions that were written  and circulated by R. Williams,  3) agreed to help publicize hearing  meetings (lack of advance notice prevented this and reliance was made  on a phone chain) and,  4) to not give financial support to hire an  attorney from Homeowner' s dues.-- .An Information Presentation Regarding - opposition to an extensive urban  center to be built on 280 acres located northeast of Academy on  Eubank/Juan Tabo.  .After the presentation, the following resolution was  proposed by :&lb Burrill and passed by vote:  "Let it be resolved that the  Sandia Heights Homeowners' Association views with concern the efforts of  AMDEC to create in the midst of a predominately residential area of high  quality a corrrnercial-industrial canplex known as the Tanoan Executive  Center and urges agencies of the county and city, in the best interests  Zo  /ll  of the cOllllty and city, to reject any such proposal." Further infonnation  can be obtained from, or non-deductible contributions can be mailed to:  Albuquerque Citizens for Quality Development, % Roger Cox and Associates,  Inc. - 4121 Wyoming, N. E., Albuquerque, New :Mexico 87111.  SANDIA HEIGH.TS GUARD SERVICE  As of April 1st, 1983, the cost per customer for the Guard Service has increased  from $6.50 per month to $7.00, approximately 7.6%.  'Ihe increase is absolutely  necessary to keep the service on a break-even basis and is the first increase  in twelve (12) months.  'Ihe service has proven a valuable asset to the area,  the guard is on call approximately ninety (90) hours per week and definitely  provides a significant deterrant to vandalism and break-ins.  'Ihe guard also  provides assistance on many occasions to the fire department, ambulance service,  rescue squad, etc.  essary and appreciated.  RECENI' BOARD OF DIRECIDRS DECISIONS:  1.  Passed - a decision to support the carefully researched position of the  Architectural Control Corrmittee on satellite receivers (see next  newsletter item).  2.  Resolved - a decision to present the following proposal at the next  meeting: All covenant violation work will be handled by the  Homeowners' Association, not the Architectural Control Corrmittee  as is the case at present.  To do this we propose to pay a volunteer/hired  resident who would work as Executive Vice President for the Homeowners'  Association Board of Directors. Other duties would include representing  Homeowners at city and county planning meetings, lobbying at city,  county, and state levels for action items as decided by the Board,  and working to keep Homeowners informed on all possible zone changes.  ATTENTION:  SATELLITE RECEIVER DISC .ANTENNAS  For those of you considering a satellite receiver dish, here are the regulations  from the Sandia Heights Architectural Control Ccmnittee.  In a recent Homeowners'  Board of Directors Meeting we voted to accept and support these controls. Note  _1:hat:dprior.c:tpproya~ ts_requi.red if youaJ:"e planning to install a receiver.  'Ihe Architectural Control Comnittee will consider the installation of satellite  receiver disc antermas only on the following basis:  1) 'Ihe disc and all related equipment must be painted an earthtone color-greens/  browns-no white, and must be mounted on the lowest possible pedestal so the  height is kept to the absolute minimum.  2) Adequate and appropriate screening of the equipment from view of neighbors  in the opinion of the Corrmittee.  Screening to be accanplished with materials  that blend with the house and surroundings and be predominantly of a  landscaping nature and be totally completed within thirty (30) days of  the installation of the disc itself.  3)  Complete plans for the project including screening and final  landscaping be submitted prior to installation.  IDcause of the five-foot (5') maximum antenna height specified by the  Declaration of Restrictions in many of the Units of the Subdivision,  any receiver antenna which exceeds that height cannot be approved by the  Committee.  However, if otherwise not objectionable, the Committee itself  will not object to, prevent the installation of, or pursue the rerroval  of such receiver antennas when all other guidelines are met.  However,  the Committee cannot arbitrarily waive the rights of other property owners  with respect to the five-foot (5') height restriction.  If there are any questions, please contact a member of the Sandia Heights  Architectural Control Conmittee at 296-9585.  LOS ANGELES CORRIDOR PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT :MEETING (April 20, 1983)  Several members of the Homeowners' Board and Sandia Heights residents  attended a meeting held to discuss the future of the Los Angeles Boulevard  Corridor between Tramway Boulevard and I-25.  After a lengthy presentation on the present status of the area, an  environmental impact discussion, a summary of the many alternatives for  development of the road,(expressway, h{gh capacity arterial or major  arterial parkwaY,)projected volumes of traffic (3,000-10,000 vehicles  per day by the year 2005, on Los Angeles east of Wyoming to Tramway  Boulevard,) the meeting was opened for questions from the floor.  When asked for specific time schedules, it appeared that the only Los  Angeles work anywhere in the near future would be an improvement in the  I-25 frontage roads and an interchange at I-25 and Los Angeles, work  scheduled to begin in October 1983.  As for the rest of Los Angeles,  particularly the unpaved section east of Wyoming, the city is in very  preliminary plannillg stages; it seems.clear that no improvements will  be accomplished for a number of years.  As was stated in the meeting,  "It won't be tomrorrow that they dig up the street!"  At present, the county is responsible for the current miserable level  of maintenance , and will continue to be so.  TODDLER'S PLAYGROUP - Anyone interested in forming a toddler's playgroup please contact  ----- - - -M3-l:ly--Pieree--±9-9-1S86.-------. ------- ----------- -- - On b,2half of the Sandia Heights Homeowners' Board of Directors,  iJl~P~!  ~dland Beezhold, President  