October 18, 1983  HOMEOWNERS' A~CIATION  NEWSLETTER  Dear Sandia Heights Homeowners' Association Member,  Enclosed you will find important information regarding a number of subjects which  will affect all of us in coming years.  1. COUNTY LINE RESTAURANT SURVEY RESULTS  Thank you very much for responding to our questionnaire regarding your opinion  on the County Line Restaurant and thei1· liquor license application.  Your Homeowners' Board of Directors decided in a July 26, 1983 meeting to  inform the entire Sandia Heights Community about the status of the County Line's  new liquor license application, and, at the same time, conduct a written survey.  Mr. Randall Williams, newly elected Board Vice-President, was asked to be in charge  of the survey, including an additional random sampling poll.  A questionnaire was mailed to 692 Sandia Heights residences on August 4, 1983,  asking several questions concerning the County Line. As of August 22, 1983, 259  (37%) of the residents had responded. The results are as follows: Oppose -173  (67%), Support - 71 (27%), Don't Care - 15 (6%).  Concurrently, 53 residents were randomlv selected from the total polulation (692)  of homeowners to further ensure unbiased and complete results. These results,  also obtained in writing, are as follows: Oppose - 35 (66%), Support - 16 (30%), Don't  Care - 2 (4%).  As can be seen, the residents of Sandia Heights, by more than a two-to-one margin,  oppose this establishment.  \A,·e are confident in the accuracy cf this survey. There are additional points  which should also be mentioned. First, the brochure sent out by the County Line  while the survey was in progress did not alter the two-to-one against ratio in incoming  returns. Secondly, the County Line brochure contained several misleading and incorrect  statements regarding those who had worked hardest in opposing the restaurant  and regarding interaction with the Homeowners' Board. If the Board had chosen  to counter these misstatements by the County Line, we feel that the poll results  could have been even more one-sided against the restaurant than they were. Thirdly.  most of those who responded against, also indicated a commitment to activelv  oppose the liquor license by turning out for any hearings. Only a handful of people  stated that they would actively support the restaurant. Fourthly, the vast majority  of individuals who oppose the restaurant do so because they are opposed to the  additional traffic hazards that would result from heavier town traffic, particularly  with liquor being a factor.  II. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OPPOSES THE COUNTY LINE.  After studying the questionnaire and random poll results, your Board of Directors,  at a meeting held August 30, 1983, voted to follow the mandate of the majority  of homeowners and actively participate in opposing the liquor license application  of the County Line Restaurant & Bar in Sandja Heights. Also, on August 30, 1983,  with very little advance notice, a preliminary approval hearing was held by the  Alcholic Beverage Control (ABC) Board's Hearing Officer in Santa Fe. At that meeting,  County Line presented their building layout proposal. The proposal now calls for an indoor  lounge area of 70 seats, and an outdoor (patio) lounge area of 70 seats, in which alcoholic  beverages but no food will be served. There is a 220 seat dining area indoors. This means  that the County Line is essentially proposing a 140-seat lounge. We believe that this lounge  capacity is not in keeping with the "family restaurant" image espoused by County Line.  lll. HOMEOWNERS MEETING AND THE LIQUOR LICENSE COUNTY HEARING  As of this writing ABC has not made a decision. We were originally led to believe that preliminar;.1  approval would be granted by the ABC because they traditionally look primarily at the financial  responsibility of the establishment. However, the ABC Director, Mr. A. Rodriguez, informed  me that neighborhood concerns are checked into by ABC. Rodriguez was interested in the  results of our poll and promised that he would visit Sandia Heights personally before he makes  a decision for ABC. If ABC grants approval, a letter is_ sent t9 the county and a county  hearing date is set.  Final liquor licen-se--approvaTrestsw1th-fhe colln(v.-\\le-wiB make every-attempt possible  to get the county to hold its hearing during evening hours to enable maximum participation  of residents. Notification of such hearings must run in the newspaper for two consecutive  weeks. You should check daily in the legal notices section of your paper.  We have just discovered that Mr. A. Rodriquez, has indeed granted  preliminary approval, and that the county hearing has been set for:  Wed. - November 2, 1983 - 2:00 P.M.  Bernalillo County Office Building  620 Lomas, N. W.  \\'e have decided to hold a Homeowners' Meeting specifically to mobilize efforts to fight  the County Line Liquor License at the county hearing.  Place: Sandia Heights Fire House  Time: ,:30 P.M.  Date: Tues., Nov. I, 1983  Subject: County Line Liquor License Opposition  We originally intended to invite Mr. Bruce Walcutt from the County Line organization to  - -- answe1~quesHons.--However;-sin-ce the County Line presente-dlheirc-ase quite full:.' in a5rochu-re - mailing, we have not invited them to the meeting. We will review the information we have.  obtain commitments from those who can attend the hearings, and form car pools. We can  expect the county hearing to occur within days after this meeting.  IV. SPRING GENERAL MEETING ELECTION/JULY '83 BOARD MEETING MINUTES.  As you know from the billing information sent to you in August '83 two new individuals  were elected to the Homeowners' Board of Directors. Mr. Randall Williams and Ms. Kathleen  LeBeck. In the July '83 Board Meeting, according to instructions in our by-laws, Board Officers  were elected. These are: Wendland Beezhold, President; Randy Williams, Vice President;  Mary Ann Reed, Secretary; and John Miller, Treasurer.  Your Homeowners' Board of Directors reads as follows:  Wendland Beezhold (President)  329 Paint Brush Drive  Randy Williams (Vice President)  731 Tramway Lane  296-5761  to 6/85  296-5662  to 6/86  APPLICATIONS BEING RECEIVED FOR  HOMEOWNERS' BOARD OF DIRECTORS  EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT(s)  SEND RESUMES TO:  A. MILLER  223 SPRING CREEK LANE  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87122  VII.  RESTRICTION VIOLATIONS  Over the last several months the Homeowners' Association has been mailing as many  as fifty letters per month on various restriction violations. Many of these letters concern  the same violations, so that a general reminder to each household may be helpful and possibly,·  curtail some future problems.  As homeowners we may not:  1.)  Store an unscreened boat, camper ·i:railer", or recreational vehicle on our property,  and this includes foldup camper-type trailers; storing any unscreened inoperable  automobiles. utility type trailers, or commercial type vans or vehicles on our propert~·  is prohibited.  2.)  Add roof mounted air conditioning, solar collectors or additions to our homes without  the specific approval of the Architectural Control Committee.*  For information on submittals and approvals call 296-9585.  3.) Build a fence, wall, or other structure within l 5 feet of a property line unless specif- ically approved by the Architectural Control Committee.  4.)  Install an unscreened antenna disc.  Further,  A.) Butane tanks are to be painted an earthtone to match the house and landscaped  as an absolute minimum, and if necessary, adequately screened from the view of  your neighbors.  B.) White or silver roofs, whether flat or pitched, are not acceptable; any reroof  work must be in earthtones as per the original approved plans.  ·  C.) Swings, slides, basketball goals, etc .. are to be painted in earthtones.  D.) Trash, junk, building materials, etc .. may not be stored in clear view on any lot or  property.  The Homeowners' Association in conjunction with the Architectural Control Committee  intends to continue enforcing the restriction covenants for the benefit of the entire neighbor- hood.  Each homeowner has the responsibility to meet these standards and is expected to  do so.* In several cases, legal pursuit has been necessary and will continue to be an alternative  if required. The rules are for everyone; our property values and quality of neighborhood  are at stake.  Your help and cooperation will be appreciated!  * These restrictions are binding on all Sandia Heights Properties. If you have mislaid your  copy of the "Declaration of Restrictions" and wish to refresh your memory, a copy may  be obtained by calling 296-9585.  Homeowners' Board of Directors continued ..  Mary Ann Reed (Secretary)  514 Black Bear Loop  John Miller (Treasurer)  548 Black Bear Road  Kathleen LeBeck  1006 Tramway Lane  Anita Miller  22 3 Spring Creek Lane  Stan Bazant  575 Black Bear Road  294-4567  to 6/84  293-8144  to 6/85  298-3425  to 6/86  298-5023  to 6/84  296-2415  to 6/84  The Board also voted against requested increases in_ fees from the Tram Company to  cover increases for playground maintenance, covenant' monitoring, and resident information  service. These are functions performed by the Tram Company for the Homeowners' Association  at agreed-upon fees. The Tram Company has since submitted justifications for the increases  in writing. We expect negotiations will follow.  V.  TREASURER REPORT  As of October 1, 1983, 188 homeowners had paid the 1983-84 membership dues of $30.00.  The Homeowners' Association cash on hand is $6,834.92. As noted in the last fiscal report  (August 1983), we will have expenses this next year to cover: 1) playground maintenance,  2) covenant monitoring and resident information service, 3) snow removal, and 4) newsletters.  The Tram Company has requested in writing to raise the playground maintenance fees to  $1,800.00 per year. The Tram Company has also requested an increase in the fees for item  (2) above from $3,000.00 to $3,600.00 a year. Since we expect to take over this work (see  VI below), we do not know the exact expenses for '83-'84 in this category.  Your Board cannot understand those who will not contribute the nominal $30.00 annual  homeowners' membership fee. We will need additional funds in '83-'84 to work on your behalf,  so please respond as soon as possible.  VI.  SEARCH FOR BOARD EXECUTIVEYICE PRESIDEN'I'(s)- SALARIBD POSITION(s)  Your Board has decided to take over many functions now performed for homeowners  by the Tram Company. These functions include: 1) covenant violation business, and 2) homeowners'  information service. In addition, we believe there are daily information gathering. information  dissemination, and lobbying efforts needed so that we, homeowner's, can begin to fight for  services from Bernalillo County and the state. For example, our Sandia Heights streets  are suppose to be maintained by the county because these roads are owned by the county.  However, as you know, we get absolutely nothing for our taxes in road maintenance service  from the county.  Lobbying efforts will also be needed to insure satisfactory development along Tramway,  safety improvements on Tramway itself, and other property-value protecting activities.  Much of this work needs to be done during day-working hours. Therefore, we are looking  for one or two individuals who live in Sandia Heights and who have the time and interest  to work in these capacities. Expenses and, possibly, a nominal salary will be paid.  VIll.  STATUS OF LOS ANGELF.S BLVD.  As you may have noticed, Los Angeles Blvd. has received a much needed temporary paving  job. This long awaited improvement should do much to alleviate the dust and will provide  an alternate access road to and from Sandia Heights.  IX.  PARENTS: DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOUR KIDS ARE SHOOTING?  LETS GET THE GUNS OFF THE MESA! Anyone with information relating to the shooting  of my Siamese kitten on Thursday, Octobe1 6, 1933, please call me, Nadine Allen, at 296-7891,  967 Antelope Ave., N. E.  Ordinance 284 Sec. 7 Bemalillo County prohibits cruelty to animals. "It is unlawful for  any person to willfully or maliciously kill, maim';-disfigure, torture .... overdrive or otherwise  cruelly set upon any animal. Any person who violate.s this ordinance shall be deemed guilt~'  of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed  $300.00 and/or imprisoned for a period not to exceed 90 days."  X. ADVANCE NOTICE:  Put on your calendars the Annual Sandia Heights Holiday Fair, November 27th from 10:00  to 5:00 P.l\1. at the Fire Station, base of the Tram. Featured will be the work of Sandia  Heights artists and craftsmen. See you there!  XI.  MISCELLANEOUS:  Ads received:  -12 year old will babysit children ages 1-8 on any day but Thursday. No indoor dogs, please.  293-7816 and ask for Camille.  -Will babysit children 6 mo. - 8 years, after 3:30 p.m. on weekdays and anytime on weekends.  Red Cross babysitting certificate. 294-0122. Lisa.  For the Homeowners' Board of Directors,  I  /  ~  --7  /~,ftf>tctl _f!/~_,c  Wendland Beezhold  /.  Board President  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION  329 PAINT BRUSH, N. E.  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87122  ·_,,..- MILLER, JOHN R.  NE  548 BLACK BEAR RD  o71zz  ALBUQUERQUE  NM  0  BULK RATE  U.S. POSTAGE  PAID  PERMIT NO. 375  ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.  