January 20, 1983  HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION  NEWSLETTER  Dear Sandia Heights Homeowner,  The 1982 annual Homeowners' meeting took place on JlID.e 15, 1982.  There were  31 members present, representing 25 families who live in Sandia Heights. At  this meeting two new board members were elected: Wendland Beezhold and  Jolm Miller. VJhen Rab Freeman, President of Homeowners , left Albuquerque  for a year' s leave of absence, Wendland Beezhold was named President in her  stead. :Members of the present board are:  Wendland Beezhold, President  Bob Hoff er, Treasurer  Mary Ann Reed, Secretary  Anita Miller  Stan Bazant  Jolm Miller  Bob M.rrphy ~ ex officio  The NEXT GENERAL MEETING will be:  Saturday - February 26, 1983  10:30 a.m. at the Sandia  Heights Firehouse  Please make it a point to be there as a number of items crueial to the future  of Sandia Heights will be on the agenda.  As you no doubt realize, our  neighborhood is changing and growing.  Some of these pressures for change are  exemplified by the current liquor license controversy. Plans for the future  will be presented, discussing:  ..  County Planning for Tram;vay  - Tram Company plans for development  - The status of "The ColID.ty Line" Restaurant and its  application for liquor license  Sumnary of Covenants  1) Included herein for your information is an attachment containing:  a) Miscellaneous information from the Tram Company  b) Liquor License Hearing Information  c)  Zoning and Rezoning infonnation (along Tram;vay)  d)  Homeowners' Financial Statement  2)  An explanation from P.N.M. regarding their mn:nerous recent  power outages and their future plans for Sandia Heights.  3) A questionaire regarding your perceptions of the functions of  an effective Homeowners' Association and the areas you feel  most need attention. Your carments and suggestions would be  appreciated.  ry,  Wend and  President  ATTACHMENT  A. )  MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION  MASTER PLAN  Sandia Peak Tram Campany is in the process of zoning three tracts of land in the  Sandia Heights area to confonn with its 1976 M:i.ster Plan. All three tracts are  be:ing zoned for residential uses and are within the guidel:ines provided by the City  and County Planning Departments.  Two of the tracts are west of Tranway Boulevard  and are being zoned for townhouses and garden homes.  The third tract is at the  far southeast corner of Sandia Heights, south of the P:ino Arroya and north of the  remaining lands of the Albuquerque Academy.  That tract is approximately 80 acres  and will be developed into residential lots of approximately 3/4 acre in size and  will have similar restrictions and covenants as apply to the balance of Sandia Heights  lots. This law density residential zoning will complement the current zoning of  -- - --tb.e-ro=ea--an~eC:t----:aR-:-:a-pp-r~te- --ar~-use---0-Lthese foothill ?rea .. lands~--- RESTRICTIONS  Just a reminder - The Homeowners' Association continues to notify residents of  any violations of the restriction covenants they may find.  Residents' attention  to these matters is appreciated.  Generally the vast majority of those notified  respond imnediately, reflecting the overall support of the covenants.  CONSIDER YOUR NEIGHBORS  Swing sets, basketball goals and butane tanks are rrruch less obtrusive when  painted in a sand or earthtone color.  Flood lights - excessive exterior lighting and/or flood lights are strictly  forbidden by the covenants.  Your consideration of your neighbors is necessary to keep Sandia Heights the  special area it has become known as.  SANDIA HEIGHTS GUARD SERVICE  'lhe Sandia Heights Guard Service has expanded its hours on weekend evenings due  to some recent vandalism.  Each of you can be helpful with these problems if you  ---wi~TI lock your cars and close your -garage doors When you go m for the evenmg; -------- further, if you see suspicious persons :in your area call the guard at 765-9832  or 243-9888 inmediately.  He is there for your benefit; call if you need his  services.  B.)  LIQUOR LICENSE HEARING INFORMATION (Surrnary by M.A. & Fred Reed)  A hearing held by the New Mexico Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in Santa Fe on  Monday, 28th December 1982 at 8:30 a.m. with Hearing Officer, Mr. Jake Martinez,  in charge of the proceedings.  Representatives for the "County Line of Albuquerque" Restaurant were Mr. Bruce  Wolcott, part owner from Austin, Texas, and the County Line Attorney, Mr. Leo C.  Kelly of Albuquerque.  