"NEWS OF SANDIA HEIGHTS”  February 1, 1980  HAPPY NEW YEAR!  RESULTS OF MEETING  On Nov 13, 1979, there was a homeowner's board meeting. It was attended by 90-100’ people who are interested in what happens to Sandia Heights. The guest speaker was Wray Simmons, our County Representative. He answered questions regarding the condition of Tramway Blvd. and other Services which the county should provide to us, but very seldom does. He stated the people in the North and South Vailey seem to get most  of the attention, As the saying goes and I quote Mr. Simmons, "He  who Squeaks the loudest gets the grease”.  We have approximately 650 families in Sandia Weights, It everyone vould write or phone their complaints (roads, dogs, police protection etc.) to the commissioners, things in Sandia Heights might improve! Speak  up for the way your tax money is being spent.  Through the diligent work of our Homeowners Association, especially John Warner, the Bernalillo County Commission has approved funds to resurface Tramway Blvd. this summer. This road has been a dangerous problem for all Sandia Heights residents, Many thanks to Wray Simmons, for his assistance in this project.  GUARD SERVICE  The guard service is now operating between 70 and 72 hours a week.  Tt has been noted that some Sandia Heights residents have not supported this service. This puts a burden on residents who do financially support the service, Everyone in Sandia Heights 1s covered by the guard service. They are our only source of dependable security. Comparable guard service runs as high aa $18 a month, Sandia Heights is a pleasant place to live and our guard service is a very tangible asset. Let's not lose it, which will happen if we all don't support it.  LETTERS FROM RESIDENTS During the past few months, the GRIT has received the following letters:  "It's really getting bad down here on Marigold regarding dogs tearing up the trash. I've been coming home at 1 o'clock to get it out for the  2 o'clock pick up. Can't leave it out anymore before I leave at 8 am. The last two weeks I've had to stand guard for an hour by chasing dogs away and keeping an eye out, which is really a pain, Can a notice be put into the next newletter to remind people to please keep their dogs in on Tuesdays??”  ‘Thanks , ANNOUNCEMENTS, WANT ADS.  The Sierra Vista Sw:  & Tennis Club is sponsoring a 4-5 day trip to Alta. We leave by Frontier Airlines tho afternoon of March 13, fly to Salt Lake, limousine to Alta whore we stay at the ALTA PERUVIAN logge with tyo meals a day and lift ticket included ....Total price for 5 days is $410, for four days $370. Snowbird is 2 miles down the road by free shuttlebus, Ski the Greatest Snow on arth: For further information, please cali: Joan Granger at 299-8000 before Feb. 10, if possible.  Amvay Products - Biodegradable septic tank aids, drainmate, safe for P.V.C, and A,B,C, plastic pi ‘Low in phosphate soap, concentrated  A dine and complete line of household items, vitamins and call M, Harris at 294-0183.  WANTED: Scrabble players, call C.D. & Maimie Carter at 299-5503,  FOR SALE: Entire collection Italian storling silver, tea set, trays, dishes, all one of a kind pieces, call Mirian Lubow at 299-2364.  YOR SALE: Many hand embroidered tablecloths and odd lace hand made pieces, call Mirian Lubow at 299-2364.  BABYSITTING: Yvonne Lubow, age 13, call 299-2364.  FOR SALE: Sheltie puppies, miniature collios, AKC registered, shots, Super with children, call 293-3917.  CLEAN WINDOWS: Classical Glass, free estimates, Ken Mager 821-6640. CLEAN WINDOWS: Danny's Window Cleaning Co, free estimates, 883-3681.  In the next issue of the GRIT, we would 1ike to list the babysitters in the area, so please send your name and age and phone number to us by May 1, 1980, Also children willing to work this summer doing odd jobs around the area, Lets here from you.  Also next issue, Swim Toam News. Swimmers start working out!  Don‘t foreet Sandia Alpine prosran star the snow and  aut Ski Sohsol will be havine a second remestor natn February, Cone up and oti with us while ther is best, call 296-9575 op 291-5953,  LETTERS, cont.  "I do not think 4t would be amiss to remind some of our residents that due to the hilly and low visibility nature of the roads in Sandia Heights and despite the fact that there are no center lines on these roads; it is extremely important that people hug their own side of the road. It is not so bad at night because at least then you can see the oncoming head- lights, T drive a very small car, and three days ago, T had to quickly leave the road completely or I would have had a rather severe accident with a Mercedes which was eating up the entire road and which would have totally demolished me. This is getting to be a very serious condition.”  Concerned ,  If you have a complaint or a recommendation or some "good news" about Sandia Heights, please briefly write thom down and send them to us at 455 Live Oak Rd, NE, Alb. NM 87122. We appreciate hearing from you.  CAUTION  Check sliding glass doors for latching tension, on some models there  01 the flush face plate. Simply by turning this the tension adjusts to tighten door. Turning the screw the opposite direction causes the latch not to lock into the door frame, though the mechanism sounds and feels as if it works, it will not lock. Any questions regarding the above, please contact Bullet, at the Guard Service.  SANDIA HEIGHTS - IT'S CONCEPTS AND DEVELOPMENT by Ben Abruzzo  As those of us who live here recogniz place to live with qualities in life in mst of the country, or in fact in the world. The concept of Sandia Heights developed almost simultanoously with Sandia Peak ‘Tramway with the first homes in Sandia Heights original subdivision being completed roughly a year prior to the opening of the tramway. The entire area was very carefully master planned and carefully restricted to provide the unusual and pleasant surroundings which residents today enjoy, A great deal of planning in all phases of the various sub-divisions occurred many years prior to the offering of home sites in the individual units,  Sandia Heights is a unique yle not easily obtainable  We are very proud of the fact that our community is essentially Self contained providing our own water service, solid refuse dispos ‘and with the developers providing the bulk of the roadway nce in the area. Our Pire District is one of the finest districts in the entire State of New Mexico and our response jencies in the area is indeed excellent in every respect  At this writing there are approximately 650 residences completed and another 50 under construction. Sandia Heights Subdivisions are owned and have been developed by a Tri Venture consisting of ownership by Alvarado Realty Company, Sandia Peak Tram Company, and Sandia Poak Ski Company. The Tri Venture provided funds for the improvements in the Subdivisions as voll as facilities such 2s the Fire District #5 Volunteer Fire Station which was constructed by the companies and subsequently sold to Bernalillo County. The Company also is responsible for the improved And expanded Guard Service presently offered  Prime in the  ans for development were complete recreational facilities immediately available to the residents of Sandia Heights. The Four Seasons Club was constructed to provede availability of swimming and tennis couts to residents. Stables were developed to provide riding facilities, horse rentals, boarding facilities for those owning horses, and planned activities such as hay rides, steak rides, hamburger cook-out rides, and breakfast rides. Sandia Peak’Tramway opens the "backyards"  of residents to enjoyment of the ontire range of activities available in the Sandia Mountains, including skiing, hiking, snow shoeing, hang gliding, picnicking and year round outdoor activity. In addition, Tesidents are afforded convenience to two fine restaurants, The Firehouse is located at the base of the tramray and High Finance is located at the top of the mountain  ALVARADO REALTY CO, 10 Tramway Loop NE Albuquerque, NM. 87122  JOHN R MILLER  545 BLACK PEAR Ke  ALACUL  aan  