ANDIA © GR  NEWS OF SANDIA HEIGHTS AND ITS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  FROM THE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT  On July 24th the Board of Directors of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association (SHHA) met to elect officers and plan the program for the upcoming year. Elected as Officers were  President Jim Ciraulo ‘Treasurer Bob Hoffer Vice President Bill Johnson Secretary Beth Overacker Board Members. are  Jim Ciraulo 293-3592 John Otten 298-7244  Tom Herrlinger 298-5557 Beth Overacker 296-8933  Bob Hoffer 283-0775 Stu Seanett 293-6026  Bil Johnson 294-2165 John Warner 296-7554  Bob Murphy 296-9585, Rab Freeman 296-2977 (Newsletter)  ‘This group of directors is enthusiastically looking forward to the upcoming year and seeks your advise and comments.  Treasurer's Report: Balance $2,600.97. A check for $1,093.80 is to be paid to the Tram Company to cover the park landscaping.” A. balance of $1,000.00 is still due  Present Projects,  SANDIA HEIGHTS PARK - Finish landscaping and add two picnic tables with lean to enclosures. ‘This will increase the usefulness of the park.  GUARD PATROL - John Otten will monitor and report on the continued and improved guard service  SNOW REMOVAL - SHHA will again contract the Tram Company to do snow removal during the upcoming winter:  AREA MAP ~ Area strect maps will be supplied to new members  TRAMWAY ROAD - John Warner will again head the committer to work with the County to further improve the road (add reflectors)  Future Projects  In order to get a feeling about the programs that interest the residents of Sandia Heights, we have prepared a survey form in this newsletter, Please fill this form out and return it so that we can get some guidance as to your needs ‘This is your opportunity to be heard  Membership:  At present there are 166 members of SHHA. There are still approximately 450 non-members. For various reasons these residents have not joined SHHA We therefore request all present to bring one new resident family into  HOMEOWNER INTEREST SURVEY Please check the items you feel the Association should actively pursue  (i.e, spend money and time on) C°) dogging and Bicycling Track along Tramway ( ) Political Activities (annexation, services, etc.) ( ) Planting of mini-parks ( ) Community Events (Gatherings) ( ) Covenant Enforcements (Other — a I would be interested in working on the folowing projects: Name: ‘Address Telephone: soge 2  the membership. This will allow SHHA to take on new projects and obtain new ‘"do-ers". A common complaint is that the SHHA “doesn't do anything.” What is needed is @ concerned and active group of residents who are willing to put in their money and time to make our unique community an even better place in which to live  Jim Ciraulo  FROM THE SANDIA PEAK TRAM COMPANY:  ‘Over the last several weeks, the Sandis Heights area has experienced two very serious storms with confirmed rainfall measurements of between 3” and 5° = obviously exceptional storms. Many residents have inquired as to the ownership and responsibility of roads, drainage structures, etc. in the area  ‘The roads are dedicated to Bernalillo County who takes ownership and responsibility for the roads at the point when they are inspected and accepted All’ Sandia Heights roads have been inspected and accepted by the County; therefore, the County is responsible for road maintenance as well as culvert maintenance in Sandia Heights. However, in reality, the County has seldom done maintenance in the area due to its budget and’ manpower limitations and the Tram Company, with the support of the Homeowners Association, has continued to patch roads, plow snow, repair road shoulders and clean drainage culverts over the years.  Since we now have serious problems on several roads and culvert crossings in the area; the County has assured us that they will respond to these needs ‘as oon as possible and the Tram Company will assist the County in its efforts to do these repairs ~ but only at the County's direction.  AAs residents you can help:  ‘A) If you have a serious problem with "your" road, contact the County Road Department or the County Manager's Office.  B) Your help in clearing away "plugged" culverts around your home will be extremely helpful and may prevent even more serious damage should we have a Fe-occurrence of the recent heavy rains and/or run-off.  ©) "Driveway and/or on site drainage problems are the responsibility of each individual owner, and he should make his own arrangements for repairs or reshaping of those areas  ‘The most serious problems with the roads should be taken care of during the next week or two depending on the County's pace. Meanwhile, the Tr: Company will proceed with minor repairs of road shoulders, patching, etc., on ® priority basis until we are back in shape again, Your help and patience is appreciated.  Bob Murphy  SAME OLD REMINDERS:  1) Drive carefully. Remember to watch for children around school bus stops and watch for others bicycling or playing in the streets. Our roads ha unexpected hills and turns that make seeing children and oncoming’ vehicles  2, TfY t© contain your dog. One family's pet may be another family's  EDITOR'S NOTE:  ‘The Grit is now under a new-but-old Editor. However, the lament remains the same - to know what you want in The Grit, the Editor needs to know. All articles, especially=--~-articles-----comments-----complaints-----advertisements, announcements and inquiries will be welcomed, Feel free to call and/or contribute - Rab Freeman 296-2977. ‘The deadline for next issue "News" will be Decenber 1 1960. “(My thanks to Judi Foster for ‘Volunteering her ping  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEQWNERS Alvarado Realty Co.  10 Tramway Loop NE Albuquerque, NM 87122  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS Alvarado Realty Co.  30 Tramway Loop NE Albuquerque, NM 87122 Page 3  SECURITY PATROL UPDATE:  Since the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association started the security patrol there has been a notable increase in area security. Most of these instances go unnoticed by those not directly involved. Therefore, starting with this issue, The Grit will try to keep the neighborhood aware of the patrol’s work,  During the last twelve months (Sep. '79 through Sept. '80), the Guard Service was instrumental in nine burglary arrests and identified’ thirty local vandalism problems which were resolved without the involvement of the law enforcement agencies. Although the guard cannot make arrests, he has been the individual responsible for calling the local sheriff and usunliy holding the suspect until the sheriff's arrival. The guards have check vacationing residents (up to twenty at once), checked the license plates on Over one hundred vehicles parked in the streets, and assisted in twelve ambulance or resuce cally. On a lighter note, the patrol answers calls for rattlesnake removals, stuck cars and empty gas tanks (about calls!). In doing all of this, they drive nearly 50,000 miles a y  It's obvious that the guards are serving the community in a very positive manner. Their response to calls is very quick and they have demonstrated = service and enhanced local security which the County could not do. Your continual support and comments on the service is encouraged Guard phone numbers: 765-9832, 296-9585,  L. John Otten  ADVERTISEMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, INQUIRIES:  FOR SALE - Girl's bike, 20", $10, 293-2632  CLEAN WINDOWS - Danny's Window Cleaning, 88 33681, Free Estimates  MORE CLEAN WINDOWS ~ Sandia Heights Window Washers - Call for free ‘estimates Nick, 238-5021, Shawn, 296-1162  MATH TUTORING -’ All levels - By teacher with 9 years experience, 292-6747  CAR POOL WANTED = For Albuquerque Boy's Choir, Monday pm, Julié MeBride,  rt  BABYSITTING - stephanie Lubow, 15, 296-6805, Yvonne Lubow, 14, 296-6805  QUALIFIED SITTER for your children, home, plants, etc. while you Vacation or ‘work. Very experienced. College Sophomore. 299-65 59  ODD JOBS DONE = Warren Lubow, 13, 296-6805  FOR SALE ~ Beautiful Country Italian 8 piece dining room set by American of Martinsville ~ Walnut with fruitwood ‘finish. ‘Chaire and base of table in white antique finish. 293-0861.  RUG WEAVING = Navajo, Saltillo, itio Grande rugs and woven textiles restored to original condition. Southwestern Restorations, PO Box 14263, Albuquerque, 87191, Nancye Hudgins, 292-5612  LET'S TRADE - My talents, ideas, etc. for yours. Let's have fun and get together for coffee. Tuesday, Sept. 30,1980 at 9:30 am at Miriam Lubox's, 433 Live Oak NE, RSVP, 299-2364  SAHA Nes bern Teak, OU Contiy repres ate There coill ke o semen nuns meclorgshertty . A seprubanncunenwit wall Ge mnubd Re 