SANDIA  llKIT  ------------------------------------- NEWs OF SANDIA HEIGHTS AND ITS HCMEmNERS ASSCCIATIOO  FRCM THE HCMEX:mNERS ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT:  On October 29th the Sandia Heights Haneowners met with County and State  Officials at the firehouse. Between 80 and 90 residents attended the meeting.  Representatives for the County and State were:  Wray Sinrroris - County Caimissioner  Stu Hill - State Representative·  Paul Becht - State Senator  Norm McNew - Road Department  Mr. Diaz - County Council  There was a great deal of discussion as to the neleds of Sandia Heights and the  financial state of the County. It was agreed that if Sandia Heights is to get  its fair share, it nrust becx::me politically active in the County carmission  structure. The Hareowners Associati0n will be putting their effort in this  area.  We will need all the Sandia Heights residents' support, so don't just  grumble, let the County know your needs.  In response to our questionaire the ASsociation has:  ll Set up a park activities ccmnittee under Sam Pt.nna. (296-1162) •  We will  concentrate on this area for adult and children physical activities. Sam  will need everyones' help in this project so please call him if you could  offer SClle assistance or ideas.  2.  Covenant Enforcanent - The Association is bea:xning IIDre active with the  Tram canpany in this area. If you have a problem, let us know and also  contact the neighbor. This is mandatory if the covenants, which are-- agreements between the haneowners, not the Tram eo., are to be enforced.  M:>st residents cheerfully caaply with our covenants.  The snal1 minority  who consistently ignore requests to correct violations need strong input  frcm their neighbors. We all1 i:value good neighbors.  -- 3.  An.inia1 Control - We have a ccmnittnent fran Mike dlavez that we will have  an aniIDa1 control officer visiting Sandia Heights on a regular basis. This  should solve the loose dog problem in 60 days.  FRCM THE SANDIA PEAK TRAM cn-IPANY:  With one exception, the Tram C.anpany had caapleted repairs on the roads  and culverts of the Sandia Heights area caused by the August rains. As many  of you know, we saw very little participation in the repairs by the County  despite the fact that the roads belong to the County and we all pay taxes.  The Tram canpany spent in excess of $25,000 to do the repairs; had we waited  for the County , they may have never been done. Regardless, the roads are  generally back in shape again.  Page 2  That's the gocxi news.  The bad news is that Sandia Peak Utility Carq;xmy  has filed for a water rate increase to take effect sanetine in 1981.  The cost  of power to pump the water has increased dramatically over the last bo.u years  to a degree that the water ccmpany is losing rroney on water sales. Obviously,  in order to continue to provide adequate service and keep the system in gocxi  condition, the rates must increase. Each customer will be notified as to the  proposed rates in the near future.  Bob Murphy  Sandia Peak Tram Conpany  SECURITY AND SAFEl'Y NOTE'S  The Sandia Heights SecuritY Patrol ~d like to remind all subscribers  that to reach the rrobil patrol unit directly requires that you let the phone  ring a least 6 times. This allCMS the switching circuit to route the call to  the truck; it does not switch until after 2 rings to you; if you still have  trouble reaching the guard, please try again in a couple of minutes. It's  very likely that he was out of the truck on a call, and you just missed him.  A guard on patrol can usua1ly respond to your call in less than five minutes,  and he has radio access to the local law enforcenent agencies. Please feel  free to call them- they are here for your protection and safety.  A reminder to everyone who is planning on burning dried weeds this Fall  or Winter: please call the Sandia Heights Fire Department or if you can't  reach them, the Tram Carq;xmy. An Unannounced billowing column of srroke will  probably bring a fire truck, the security guard and several v.:olunteer fire- men to your house.  'lb keep fires under control_, have sane helpers with shovels  to assist in the weed burning and keep a ready supply of water nearby.  Dry  weeds :should never be burned during Windy conditions and only in a cleared area.  The best solution to weed disposal is to take them to the durcp or have them  bagged for the local collection.  With the onslought of cold weather many banes will be burning fires on  a regular basis. Before starting to load all the seasoned firewood you have  stacked, make sure your \vood pile is clear of any unwanted visitors. Many  field an:irnals use these piles as hemes and can becare unwanted house guests if  not prcmptly aCC01IDted for. Farly in the Fall snakes or other reptiles can also  be found in your favorite piiion or oak pile.  The chances of this happening now  are slim with the below freezing nights, but better safe than surprized.  One last note has to do with the avoiding trouble with snow or ice on the  roads. As rrost of you are aware, the Hareowners Association provides, through  the Tram Carq;xmy, snow raroval service for the Sandia Heights area. After a  heavy snow fall, crews will be out clearing the Iilai.n roads first. If your  particular street isn't cleared when· you get up please be· patient- they will be  by as soon as they take care of the busier streets. A set of snow chains or  tires might be a wise investment for those of you who absolutely need to leave  Sandia Heights early. You might also talk to a neighbor who has easy access to  flat roads, or one of the main arteries, and set if you can leave a car in  his driveway in case of an expected heavy snowfall. Another solution is to  make a pot of hot chocolate and take a mini-vacation!  L. J. OITEN  THINK SNCM!  THINK .f;NCM!  Sandia Peak will offer a special Alpine Program for Sandia Heights residents.  Class will start on top of the rrountain one weekend after the ski area opens.  Fill out an Alpine application and mark it "resident", or stop by the Realty  office.  THINK SNCM!  ANNOUNCEMENTS, INQUIRIES AND ADVERTIS~:  Watch for SANTA in his balloon the weekend before Christmas (weather  permitting!) •  NAVAJO SANDPAil'filNGS - Mark and Troy~' neighborhood boys, are selling  high quality Navajo-made sandpaintings at 30% below retail. Each sand.painting  is signed by its Indian artist. The boys will bring a nice selection to your  home.  Sizes of sandpaintings include 4" x 8", 5" x 9", 6" x 12" and 12" x 12".  Please call 299-0661 if interested. ·  .Page 3  FOREIGN STUDENT - If anyone is considering taking a foreign student for  the '81- '82 school year, Muffy Conrad knows a fifteen year old Gennan boy who  is looking for a family.  For nore infonnation call her at 294-8904.  WilDLIFE RESCUE - Each year hundreds of wild creatures die because they  are unable to survive injury, or abandonment.  Many animals find themselves in  this predicam=nt because of the influence of man in their natural habitat.  Volunteers are needed for Wildlife Rescue Inc. of New ~ico, an Organization  wh:>se goal is to rescue, rehabilitate, and release injured and abandoned wildlife.  Workshops for training are planned for the Spring. For nore infonra.tion call  Anna Harris 293-1549.  BABYSITI'ING - Stephanie Lubow, 16,  296-6805 Yvonne Lubow, 14, 296-6805  ODD JOBS - Warren Lubow, 13, 296-6805  BABYSIT!'IN'.;, dog sitting, p;lnt sitting. Call Jtrly or Beth Hendricks 292-3966  Mil.TH 'lUl'ORING - All levels - by Ill3.th teacher with nine (9) years experience.  reasonable rates. Call Lyn Shillito 292-6747  ro1E FLY WITH ME! - From a bus ride to Gallup to a round the world cruise,  let me help you with all your travel needs. Never a charge for services. Call  Joan Granger at CUstcm Travel, Ltd. at 299-8000. Tickets delivered to your  !:are.  CLAIROL - (1) True to lighted make-up rnirror.bY Clairol.  Day and night  lighting, Ill3.gnification, etc. node! number IM-1. $15. (2) Kindness 26 Instant  Hairsetter by Clairol. $10. Call 299- 6071.  1978 CHEROKEE - Anyone interested in a 1978 4-door Cherokee?  Good buy:  21,000 miles, $5200. Call Muffy Conrad, 294-8904.  HOUSE CLF.ANING - Did you know there is a quality housecleaning service  for the Tranway area? We also do carpet cleaning. Call Bobby at 299-5334.  Neighborhood recamendations.  WINlXW CLEANING - Sandia Heights WindCM Washers. Free estimates. Nick  298-5021 or Shawn 296-ll62.  MJRE WINJXm CLFJ\NING - Danny Is WindCM Cleaning 883-3681.  TUMBLE TUNBLK•IBED RESOURCES-residential, commercial tumbleweed removal,  free ~stimates. Call 265-3795, 1919 San Mateo NE  EDI'IDR s ~:  The last issue of the Grit stated that there were 166  members of the Sandia Heights Haneowners Association.  'Ihl.s is incorrect;  All residents of Sandia Heights are rnanbers of SHHA; only 166 elected to pay  the voluntary dues.  others, of course, are nnre than welcane.  The editor will be happy to accept articles, ccmaents and complaillnts as  well as the Ill3.nY announcements, advertisements and inquiries. Call Rab  Freeman 296-2977.  ~ thanks to Miriam Lubow for her typing of this issue.  REMINDERS:  Drive carefully  Watch for children  Contain your dog  Best wishes for a happy holiday season  