The SHHA currently manages and oversees urban development within Sandia Heights, ensuring property owners abide by specific restrictions set in the covenants such as conserving local vegetation and minimizing unnecessary landscaping competition. To achieve this, SHHA and the ACC (Architectural Control Committee) encourage homeowners to align their landscaping plans with covenant limitations. The SHHA continuously updates its member directory and handles arising issues like obstructive trees through the Covenant Support Committee (CSC). They encourage amicable resolutions between neighbors when conflicts arise, especially concerning shared views. The Traffic and Safety Committee advocates for safer roads with initiatives such as speed humps, made possible by resident support. Financially, Sandia Heights maintains assets of $88,324.12 as of October 31, 2002, alongside liabilities including an open space reserve, a legal reserve, and outstanding legal bills. SHHA also oversees community activities, including the development of a discount program and planning for an annual wine tasting event. In response to certain objections regarding the increase in monthly dues from $5 to $8, the Board is improving communication strategies to keep residents well informed. Projects such as the Cedar Hill Park have been questioned, but are defended by highlighting the changing community demographics. Trespassing on private lands for forest access exerts strain on the property owners, however, ongoing dialogue continues to establish safer walking trails. Coping with critical comments, the Grit journal maintains an unbiased approach, refraining from printing slanderous or false statements. Ensuring covenant adherence has legal implications and costs, but attempts at out of court settlements prevail to keep the expenses minimal. In other matters, homeowners are encouraged to test their homes for radon levels due to the potential health hazards it poses. Lastly, the water supply in Sandia heights is efficiently handled by Sandia Heights Services with the daily water usage within every household below the average for Albuquerque and Santa Fe cities. Community activities include the Wildflower Club meetings, the search for unit coordinators, and acknowledgment of the new SHHA membership monthly fee of $8.