The SHHA, amidst an ongoing drought that has increased the fire risk, urged residents to remove dead trees and brush, and is discussing a potential water rate increase with the local utility, Sandia Heights Services. This was to be discussed in an upcoming Board of Directors meeting. To counter the drought and fire risk, Bernalillo County officials are in the process of developing Cedar Hill Park with a $19,000 contribution from SHHA’s Open Space Fund. The park’s construction is expected to begin soon. It was shared that the association spent $124,923.72 during 2001/2002 on various needed expenses like communication, park maintenance, insurance, and legal fees. The SHHA has solicited new members to join its committee and has been working on updating its website and Residents Directory, urging all members to validate and amend any details if required. The website’s update is just one part of SHHA’s efforts to maintain open communication channels and compliance with existing restrictions. The Covenant Support Committee has been working on improving the often vague existing covenants to simplify compliance and decrease complaints concerning unruly trash management and rogue trees. The residents have been asked to research existing covenants to help develop model covenants in the coming year. For efficient waste management, suggestions like trashcans with rollers and lid locks, hiring neighborhood kids, or coming up with a barter system with neighbors were made. Chemical waste should be deposited at Rinchem Inc. The association faced some controversy regarding their use of dues for lawsuits against fellow residents, calling for more transparency. However, new proposed projects like "Holiday Lights in the Heights" and discussions for water rate increase, open spaces, and park development, are in full swing. In response to a couple of fires this summer, Sandia Peak Utility Company and Forest Service have provided firefighting capabilities with helicopters and a refuge site near Sandia Peak Utility offices. The SHHA and the Architectural Control Committee have been enforcing the covenants, drafted by different developers over time, creating clear standards and pursuing legal action where necessary. However, financial support is needed for legal litigation, along with a move to standardize covenants across all of Sandia Heights has been proposed. To enhance the value of being an SHHA member, contractor evaluations, community representation, community events, and a resident's directory, along with other services, have been offered. The SHHA appealed to the public for any feedback or suggestions regarding their services for improvement. Lastly, an effort to increase awareness about the correct trash disposal methods and timings was made, especially since strict compliance enhances the community's appeal. +1