Several changes have transpired within the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association (SHHA) with Ann Zimmerman resigning as Board President and the election of new officers, namely Joe Pappe, Bob Bower, George Connor, and Woody Farber for the President, Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer roles respectively. Additional board members Don Aunapu and Anne Manning, join directed towards the Architectural Control Committee and Communication and Publications Committee. SHHA provided an update on the county's monitoring well on Live Oak Road with water sampling carried out in February 2014 with various findings. Queries can be referred to County Hydrogeologist Sara Chudnoff. The association introduced Membership Cards, scheduled a Coffeehouse Concert, and in July's GRIT issue, underlined guidelines for filing covenant violation complaints. The classified ad section advertised, among other things, babysitting services, a bookkeeper solicitation, and a filing cabinet for sale. Residents are reminded of the distinction between SHHA and Sandia Heights Services, the cruciality of neighbourly trust, encourage reporting of suspicious activities, proper trash storage, and adherence to safety rules related to traffic and wildfire preparedness. George Connor, chairing the Sandia Heights Parks & Safety Committee, is tackling speeding vehicles, inappropriate parking, and wayward cyclists and skateboarders. Fire season is expected to be severe and residents are urged to consult New Mexico State Forestry's "Creating Wildfire Defensible Zones". The Covenant Support Committee (CSC) regulates long term parking for RVs, trailers, and boats, also asking for voluntary support for regulations enforcement. SHHA announces a photo contest with a deadline of November 7, and the winner's photograph will be featured on the 2015 Directory. Participants must confirm the originality of their submission and grant SHHA usage rights. The Annual Sandia Heights Artists Studio Tour and 2014 Open Space Summer Series are upcoming events to look forward to. Future details relating to SHHA actions, regulations, and events can be found on the SHHA website.