Yetume ss Rosin 19  ‘Nomber3  PLAGUE CAN BE AVOIDED  Asimals infected with plague havo Gallegos area aad, at last report, one been found is Sania Heights. In arly domestic eat on Sanda Heights Drive all Juncthe Elena Gallegos Picnic Area was ave been tested plague postive,  dlosed tothe pubic When a dead abiit Plague seasda commonly May ‘as found to have ded rom the plague. through September, when rodents (and Morereceatyonerocksgutrelon Eagle peopl!) are active ouoor. Animals of ‘Nest Drive, a second rock squirrel on Concern inlude rock squieel, chip Eagle Ridge Drie, a thitd in Elena muni, woodrats paiie dos, gopher,  ‘SHHA ANNUAL MEETING  ‘The 1993 Annual Members’ Meet: The Spring Fling, immeditey fo ing was held on Jane 5a the County's lowing the Anaual Mating was once District #5 Fite Sation with thiny-Gve again a big succes with over 250 people members pret. Committee Chairs attending. A new’ 1983 edton of the fave brat reports onthe past years ac. SHHA Tshirt a introduced and well Utes and the 199293 Annual Report accepted, judging by the masy tht were (Geeimert) was disrutedtoatendees, sold. The shirts eatore a humming  lection of four new directors and inthe foreground withthe Sania Mous- five roclocted directors to seve three- tains and bloom acts in the Dack- year terms on the Sandia Heights ground. The shits may be ordered Homeornees Assocation Meoard con through the SHIA fie fe $850 by ded the mecting Alt ofthe 199594 calling 87-8611 Board of Director and their afeas of New BoatdotDirctorffcerswere "esponsbilty appear on page 7 costed at the June 9 Board Mecting  ‘Bob Choral Treasurer. Christ Kanal - Secretary, Lou Mande - Psion. Whiten Vee Presider not pleted.  mice, il rabbits and domestic dogs and cat Plague isa naturally ceuring, fa trancmited disease of rodents abd rab- bhiscausedy bacteria, Infected rodents stall di lesning plague ified leas ‘which then find new rodent or AUB hosts. Humans can coniract plague im thee wags from the bite of 3 plague infectedfeabybandlingpiague infected sek or dead gnimaly o by inling ia- fected droplets from & poetimonic p=  Symptoms of plague include fe: Ing sick all over, headache, chills, ih fever, and pais snd sweling i the Iymph nds ofthe ro, arapitorneck fates, Some oralofthesesmpioms may be preveat in the three deren human forms ofthis disease: bubonic sepicomis, and pnumonie  Hore are some preventive measures twbelpguard against plague, Reduce the ‘member of rodents proper storage and Aisgosalo ood and garbage, Avoid Nea Iitesbyesingasecticdes and repellents, ‘Avoid handling. dead ot sick rodents, Don't fet petsroam. Dust dogs and exs wit Nea powder, (A dusting of insect ‘de torment burrows wasconductedby the City of Albuquerque and Bernalillo (County Enviroameatal Health Depart tmeatthroughout mont of the Nort Sais Heights area)  ‘Manager ofthe Environmental Ser vices Division of the Albuquerque Eat oamental Health Department, Cart ‘Montman, says that wie the Division hastestedimany deadanimalstharproved fot 10 be ploguerinfeeted, prectotions Stlshoold be taken, Ifa dead animal is  Continued on pase 2  Das Got ae oe pemiatae of ANON Setar ‘ROMANE  eM INC  1 rasomlysoosbed sSeter oes & basaownae fe Senda Ralgss who  of tvet-yRouse Bag bu zt ie tose Bele  yer -slnctad szegotee! exro-eon ban eld bea ews Snentesrie penn  Page 3 “WANTED” - NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH | SHHA COMMUNITY COFFEES  place to ve, Wit the inc and inthe Albeo  ‘cally cvs caplanto attend  so that she can plan accordingly, Call Barbara Beaconbavcr Brak (291-390) if you woud he to hot  such asthe every eect ot Watch  Bobi Cheah and Frapda  Cathy Conn  Selle City Lights from Sandia Heights 11.4 Million 1992 Sales + One of TOP TEN Realtors in Albuquerque * Sandia Heights Resident & Neighbor  “THE GRIT" ADVERTISING RATES  ‘New commenl as fr resents aby wing. houe stiog. i) REE teembers oft Sa Haigh oqeowners Asatne  ‘BUSINESS CARDSUZE: Two(comatve) nase $90.00 Fone (commcte) oes $55.00  DISPLAY ADS: 14 page one ste i800  12 page. oe sue 535.00 apps ne ae siss0 Ua paactackewver-onetsive — S1EEI0  ‘ALL ADS MUST BE CAMERA-READY AND CORRECTLY SIZED" ‘PAYMENT MUST BE SUBMITTED WITH ARTWORK  Cl or tefrmition oa 8 drums 89861  Deadline for the November GRIT  “The dade for subeitinginformation for the November iasve of The GRIT i Friday, October 15, 193. Please sabmit all tater to Lee Miaer, 7213 Caron Teal NW, Albuguergue, NM 87120 $8611. ‘Advertisers shoul note thal a space ie ied and ie reserved na Best come, fa toned basis. Payest meat accompany a tpnes reservar GRIT Circulation  This ue of The GRIT was mild to the  1056 members af the Sandia Heights Honicovner Association,  Bardean Gallery Dmeuited Og t Pe be See saying tne caetone Sree ote ee scien, SE ES as rey  ‘Gates ran he Sighy Comcanin ‘Serpe and Porte ers esc  £225 Lovisane Bivd. ALE. Sule s€0  oc a) aS  ‘SANDIA HEIGHTS ANNUAL HOLIDAY BAZAAR  ‘The Sandia Heights Annual Hol- dy Bazaar wil be held on Sunday, . ‘October 17 at Sandia Heighs Academy interested in beipng at this event is from {1 am, 104 pm. cncouraged to attend the mestng,  ‘The frst organizational meeting Once again, we will have a bake will be held atthe home of Barbara sale, which was great addition tothe Bewsonhaver on Septsmber at 7:30 event ls yeas. p=  Wevelomeallanisensandealiern We are looking for another suc- ‘wbobave participatedinthepastPLUS ceuful Bazzar tis yar.  LOOK FOR THE NEW GRIT FORMAT  ‘The November issue af the GRIT wil dona newlook! Atabloidformat wie abig ‘change foe the Sandia Heights sewsleter. ft has Dees plied i magarine format since ‘bout 184, bet doco an expansion of new (nd adverducments the cont ring aptly Wi the Ascocation’s iment to continue 2 quay aad informative newsleielaa more (Sot ellecive manser. The new format vill save appeesimately $1000» year to publish Fer information os how this decision wes Anrve at thr to the Comtueations Re- port inthe Annual Roper aset ofthissae  Now dimensions for ad sizes will change ‘wth oar ew format For information ox tees cllLce Mincrat 98-8611 after August 19%,  ‘SANDIA HEIGHTS SERVICES REFUSE COLLECTION Reminder-There wil be no refose col- Jeaton on Monday, September 6 198, Lax bborDay. Refs willbe collected the follow ing day, Tuesday, September 7  Support Your Grit |  Page 5  FROM THE COMMUNITY SERVICES CHAIR  ‘This years Spring Ping was a great success. Appros smatcly 250 people eajoyed an afternoon of food, games and socaiving The eg tons was especially enjoyed by hath parts aa children  ‘Special thanks goto Lucy Russell, Christie Kawah, Dee {ebo, Rod Stowat, Mary Beth Parsons, Dsight Parsons Mary ‘Cota, Dick tumph, Anne Vegae, Ed Waten, Lovie By, Blak: Etheridge and Lee Mincr for all this hep sting up. ‘onpaniting, cleaning up, cc. Our cooks Kip Nice, Robae ‘Otten and Don Kawal ddan especialy wonderftjob. We had support om many businesses ia our community. Thanks 52 otto County Line Restaurant, Outpt Le Arce, The Tram, Sandia Shadows, Page On, Great Harvest Bread and Sanda Heights Academy. Please patronize our fends.  "Nowit'stime tostartorgaiving Ue olay Bazaar. Hil ‘beheld on Sunday, October I7at Sandia Heights Academy. Aa ‘eganizational mectng willbe beldst7Mbpam ce Wednesdsy, September 1 forall perons intrested participating or Ielping. Ik wil bea the home of Barbara Bensoabaer, 9110 Tye Loop.  “The neighborhood cotlcs ate a great way to mect your rcghbors throughout Sandia Height Mark your calendars sod doo’ forget to go! If anyone i intersted a orgniing dates or having acc, please call eat 28-577, Janey Brink 11291-8910 or Lee Mines at 89-861  [Ekrabeth "Ue" Crain, CRS, GRE ‘Broker Assocate 299-1509 Your neighbor: REALTOR, ond orignal  since 1985, 24 Sond Hepes Dive  Georgia Vredenburgh, CRS, GR! ‘Broker Asrocote 275-8992 Aboquergve Board of REALTORS Sahaperon of the Yar = 1992 ‘Mutton Oar Producer  Both are Carta Marbars an Pat Presiden of New Masco (CERTINED REXOENTIAL SPECIALISTS Cal GEORGIA or LIZ for TWO CARING, EXPERIENCED REALTORS!  SWRA aAsocuTE, 40)  me fhe “ld Homestead Pe” | |  and  TELEPHONE NUMBER CHANGES  Most Sandia Heights residents fe concerned and in many ‘cases upset about the inconvenience and, for some, the expense the chiaging of telephone numbers will ause. The SHMA ‘fice and Board members have recived noticrous pote cas on this topic  ‘Asa rest the Sana Heights Homeowners Association shed U'S WEST cxccutnestoaddres the Board of rectors ‘cathe telephone amber changesthat are sated for December ‘31988. Joe Shamard, General Manager of New Mexico ‘Network, presented the service changes ad amwered ques ‘ons from those presen. Jon Aragce, Bea Romero and Sam Mania of U'S WEST aio added their expertne and Gelded geestons,  ‘Because of rapid goth and demand for telephone ser- ces in the Sandia Heights area, US WEST is making map ‘hangesin the way ou telephone service is provided. Shumard stated that cur uence prescaly pronided trom the switching ‘center located a Eshual and Menus Boulevards and that ‘apidly apprcaching ful capacity, ‘The cable from the ‘Sandia Heights homes is longs than the optimum preferred stnce for quality rarumiason, The seed can be met by ‘changing the Service tothe switching center lcatedat Wyoming and Paseo Del Nore. Sandia Height tekphone serve also Tilbe pronded hzough 2 shorter length offer optic cable ‘ith greater realty and the capac to provide new services that Fequite igh transmission volumes  “Mr. Shumard apologized fr the incemenicnes residents wi experince, and assured us that US WEST wl work with residems minimize the difficulties that may occur during this teansion. Changesin directory records willbe made at to cost ‘to you. U S West will eed the time that callers ecuve a ‘ecorded message informing them of your new muber f ou Call and roqoest i, and you may conse your phoae number i ‘hat uate stl avaiable  For thse services you may contact Mary Lou Charlie, Service Representative, oa 705.0787  (CHANGES DELAY SHHA DIRECTORY  “The Sandia Hcghts Residents’ Directory willbe published in Janey 196 to reflect the telephone number changes. Out <dzectory is usally pobished in August. However, inthis ase ‘would be of ite or no value to pubis numbers that willbe obsolete in three ce fou months  ‘Take achantage of Direcory advertising and ofthe oppoE- ‘ity to plac your Company same andservices before ome 100 Sandia Heights residents foram cate year. Advertising space i the Sieciory i offered to help detay publishing aod mailing costs. For information on advertising ies and rates oatact Lee Mince a 99-861 Page?  Sandia Heights Security Report Doyoar part peice and mit Sadia  sa safe ad secure place to le by abun othe  ‘Sandia Heights Security Patrol. Call the Sandia Peak  “Tram Co. 296.545) for afrmaton ca scay serves  setvobecrigcn rae  Security Tins  ‘When leaving fora vacation peas eave your alarm ‘eset code or am extra alm hey with & cighbor o 8 ‘eave thatthe alarm company can each. We have mas) alarms that donot rest, and when they go off for hours a ‘time, neighbors become angry  Residents nce to cll the Sherif’s Department for complains about spedrs and sop sign runners The ‘sccaity patra as no authority to stop or warmofienders  Sandia eights Security Patrol Responses Sone, 1998  ily Compaay Assists Construction Sites on Vacant Hoases (Por See)  ‘Specials (Eura Patral/Obseraiion) 67 Homeowaers 08 Vacation na 808 TOTAL CALLS oo 18D  + coded by APD Crime Ans Unt Bera ‘Recrseaby APD Cone Ac Un t-te  1993.94 SHHA BOARD OF DIRECTORS  owls Mande a waiter  Crt Kawa  Robert Chena  Pete Alevander  Iarbara Bensonhaner  Jane Wrink  Judy Christopher ‘Scott Colas  Mary Cotton en Featlck Dave Hurig Dee Jeo Bob Kemble ‘Norman Mayer  Jim Nachbor Robin Doser Oten  “Tool Sede  Dick Stump  Tom Wray  Ame Yous  President  ‘Vice President/Parks & Recreation Chair  Secretary Community services ‘Treasurer  Recycling Chair/Pasks and Recreation Commitee ‘Coomuncations  ‘Community Services Chir/Deet District Representative  Architectural Review /Recylig/ Eagle Dearie Represcrtatve  Sandia District Representative  Architectural Review /Juiper District Reprscataine  ‘Tramway Improvement Chit Hw Diatriet Representtie Architectural Review Commitee Community Sersices/Bea Dist Represeatne  ‘New Development Chair/ Goverament Lisson  Government Liison/Ouail Diarit Representative  (Covenant Support Chair  ‘Gonerament Lisson Co-Caait/ Legal Advisor  Arcitecaral Resiow/  New Development Communications Chair/ ‘Areitecural Review/ Covenant Support,  Government Liston Co-Chair/ Pinon Date Representative  Government Laison/Covenant Support  Government Lisison/ (Comumations 5 28 ©  1992-1993 ANNUAL REPORT  LEGAL ISSUES  Robin Dazier Otten "9283, Director and Legal Advisor  ‘Daring thls yar, Sandia Heights ‘Homeowners Associate hus been for. tunate to be faced with fw legal rab Jems. We are curently ivoled im 20 lawsuits so oarleatexpcases vc een verylow,  ‘A sumber of residents of Unit 9 appeared before the Berle County Zoning Offcerto cbjecttothelocation of ‘day care centri thet portion of ot ‘cighborhood. The offer allowed the ‘property to be uid a requested by the ‘omer, but only for one year and oaly ‘ater several stipulations sought by the  neighbors. The center may serve only it shilren, no sigs may be displayed and parking on the sce is prohibited. The neighbors decked notio appealthe dec ‘Sion ando ty to mork with he owner 1 ‘minimize the impact onthe residential stmaspere of the area  “The SHIA Board appiated a task force which met several mes during the {year and made recommendations wo the board regarding the scope of the ‘Asociation’s mision, Atchtectural view and covenant enforcement were mong the functions the tak force re  ‘siowod The board decided to coatinaeto pevlormarchtceuralreview duties as we fn in th at forthe 24 us wich irarsterredy the Supa Peak ‘Term Company tobe Asst’ rinition "We il also caforce cor nants throughout Sadia Heights whew fever We Become avare that a ilation hasoceurred. The procedures inthe area ‘ol covenant enforcement ar salar 10 thos of prevows years: eters fom the ‘Association which a unbceded are fl- Towed by eer from the Assocation torney and legal aan necessary.  GOVERNMENT LIAISON COMMITTEE Senator Tom Wray, Norm Mayer, Robin Dozier Otten  Dring the past year your Govern ment Linnoa Committe wa requcaly ‘wold at varying el in ci, county, ‘and state goverameat. We wil ighlght ‘Some of ou activity inthis brie por.  We were imvbied, and remain so today, i continuing the probit of Deny cammercalrack alcove Tram way Boulevard. Commercial teucking litres in New Mexico have sought for ome time now to remove this roti tion to alow Tramay to become, cleat, aheavtruck vac bypass trom 40 0 125, via Tramway and Pasco dal "Norte. Thus fr, working wit elecied colic at cy, county, and sate levels, ‘ee have prevailed is maintaining thin frotibiion, Howser, we expect this Tsu to continue require ou vplanc,  ‘We have been working with Cousty (Commissioner Barbara Steward and ot fails from Altuguerque Metropolian ‘Ateayo Fond Contrl Authority (AMAFCA), US Forest Service,  CetogcalSerey, Coon Pc Wir, ‘and the North Abugeerque Acres Homeowners’ Asiocation, among ch fers, to asst i the development of & Jolly-funded draiage and transports tio plas or portions of North Abu ue Actes and the aes est of Sania  ‘eights North and South, The Federal Emergency Management Agency, met the proposal, wodd oid fund the rei- sion of floodplain map, with AMAFCA. “Much of he loding athe far northeast eights ofthe county originates fom satve arroos and man-made drainage strwaares east of our community. To cilecney pla sitigation of a faure Aisasteous fod originating in the foot: hills itis imperative the exiting topo \raptical Abodplain maps be revised, Your Asecation wil etic to accord ‘his ise top pron.  Your Commitee was ao very  soled the development of cw regal  ‘ment. Many sessions were hk! among, former County Commisioner Patsicia “Pat” Cassy, Fite Chie Jery Lambert, ‘Couny Manage Jan Vigil Coun At- torney Tao Chavez nd mermbers four Distt Svluntecr group. We provided fumerous rule change recommendations {othe coune fie department and through a series of negotiation, were succesfa thang them incorporated into fa fules and ordinance, The Assocation sillcontingctoimaeitslfiawhat isan Sppareat ranstion by the county ay ‘Gomnthesolastecr fice departsentinout  ‘communi, thatasserved us so wellfor  so many ears Anather developing sac before the ‘Association the Coumys groundwater  ‘protection regulation and its effect on ic tanks on Sandia Heights proper ties We willeotina to mooitor and ry 10 influence the promulgation of rues under this now coumy Law, 10 protect, homcownes sight ix our community.  We were alo quite iwolved in the  Development Ordiniace (#TCZ-91-1). ‘This prosdes « mechanism for setting ide parkland for pac we of, inthe kerastis, provides fe asesimeat 10 the lad developer fr subsequeet pr ‘hase of parkland. The absence of Suck ‘lw mon eter things, one reaso0 there is no couny-dedcated and mais- {ained park inthe unincorporated North ‘cast Heizs,iclaing Sandia Heights.  As our community coatinues to be subjugated to the callateral effects of from and increasing demitics pros ‘ate to Sandia Heights the need fo the ‘Association tote directly involved in the formation of pubic policy, ru, ad a will only increase, Your Assocation {ware of this ned and as always, invites your input and paticpation.  Sandta Heights Yormecurners. Prbociatlon COMMUNITY SERVICES  ‘Sarbara Bensontaver, ‘82-83, Comrntes Chair  ‘Special tbanks to Christie Kewl  Seniesiiowelone mndectiateaey Poot, Loud andie Mio  saptet ad to owe cormusiy (orgs rai is ed ny a  os ‘ie hose Wh helped a  Seid roughest Senda ingihe ; conplee!  ‘Rieignts. Tals nas veeaa suocessis’ gveat ee ‘iting shoets, Walch has been of great  athe enablers nit TheiN0EdeySeorwenagres Sob" ie eres oie te Se spe  Region Teatsalviskorapeea’ soem, sce wu hoe keget sulemincy we odo hme SEY Fe coote Seiaodslieae,ttcckanacteeat pene ot ti me toe  Abeta oe ec sien coowagnbe ib he  Teme SEA tpingFEagu umel o crgsteng ge trophont yor st  Badr nites fe SGhicA Stine Toston soe Soin  ‘eis itarsend mew ea: i bectiree cong id ume set  Sepdaaseeteagetad eq, ke oid Se TRAGRWAY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT ‘ary Sar, 69 Tramwy Lencecape Tek Fore end Taxremy inproemert Comrie Chk 4 lesdicping Thclendaringinchoingerigiion bare revived che dea fore pak yuiteatelged ganslbsofuncng yueny ees Mosqonsyy sot to sale inert ote kere reek Ee Tac i saly Buca cel Neve boc apr cadge: of way udsepogie complete.  secamer cour officials earned ther fed- chet $S00 0%. ac fall Bacs's Tee  Siete See TS emcee epee  Speke Geetecmkn Siokese ime  ‘he connry ves hie 10 act Ftime to tke! soci dost ‘expecta’ to begie iis summer. Again Shbesigine  ony Brn wesiossamentli oy  Ingo county lannsestoprswids ost acthrinxthe devclosme=t  fot the ute forte smal pure! ci land lah desiges, oe Tacs Pores wil Seat  ‘earmees Sen Bernadino end ies arroyo for gonitlsfuassand remind  wee the Taam San Derasdiaaiciot~ of the navd fr lavdatang os te [ob  Sectios tas moves noes Designs sow progres.  sclude a children’s play pack end a reat Sills storage ere the 6O pumade of  = geenwith water avasude or ikersand wdBower see2 Talc tae Tank Pome afer, of-runtconate- expect toluvte Sunde Height cealonts  sion te de Tranny take tal, Tas to plact os the prcacatimadaenlng bs  Force masmiben and the SEA Board belly Mahe  TECVCLNG i - ay Beet a, $298 Co-Gee hone rt oda Oy ot Auger  PARKS & RECREATION AE Wetter 92-32 Drecorand Commitee Chae  ‘A sgslcnt smo viy/ sted by Floyd Wilms, was nll opak secur. In dion the snot atic at gg clacton Themed ptt SH fd the wy feetsurey aol many logs Coen: tcenty wesc and calcd Sere ates Tapes pe Satjcs bine teen receed the tothe erence it month. bemoring we  ‘heey ha een he STA lt bur ht had USicthiyeatermeprtncighy beenloatedateOxtpo ie Are ior ‘sderuiaed. Taner ttedcat vy sceaens taco bested Such ike lau yer wb aware. tothe park, Thc bord Seng tr oweer were loer Astsevah ted be tsd far pa Seay, ‘opus cn nde 80 tad we Yosser bl piesa ad {Beceem aya Sher omy ermaon. Out Keedeionunbewazoffngeatgh aso Sey Lowber fab an tw offset the cst. Costs ths year have tance. Seber of pace tren cotrated gute well mavaaly "lic unftente tat alsces fom "Anchor iy of the commer Sitsgosihcwserdwingccreeabet the put cast be goodinSepembcr_ ths er ea te pobonon t itytimatagthemustenone cow ca pussalredagninan galiaam: fae tl sd eiitorhood map tract ln cary Fale the owas sex Spe Many volunteers worked ver ard “Thanks to Kean Comer andthe support fm Thnconacdwthikcenc'em iedeenopincdumagt Mostticmare of te Pore Sorae we were aN to Sse etc metre, has tele puwuimimteshusame prove» kcal map ter, for he  foioretcticaaastageby ual rcs one sens ine The Febuary Get. i adit othe pa ‘ooraimath Sum ran Gempuyvnequtekctoathe lah val np toma wok pres  “Someminrcqupmen mintance cfertsndifantedachanandiciothe were trpmieedAsioooh the pcs wu condeced mou tees A curume ofthe pak Thatarcrt'ep ow tw diagpentin, some mech Bust acedcd new buictal pl se fom lipmeniffim antharteces 0g _ needed mamestoce na performed  ‘COMMUNICATIONS AG Tut Foren spoitedty aprons $0 yar to poh, The Board approved the tte ie gofthetiatistmatierios Micah enc TS cca ATG thedomandforshersingipac antic Fermi won cnoidal Se)» The anal Sania Hews, Res Sess Senease Mukeiiutetrtees Newioaene detect = stepanmestt) Aap Seem = {Grcewere Chai RebiOten fancy fe November tau othe Unt eer the tephone umber changes te ‘Brak Dek Steph, Ptah Hany iternadcby CS WEST we Sard fran Gch and SHIA Eiccutne Asstt ft was futher recommended that effective datecd December Sanditseems Lesher dvetng te intense aflame lal to athe png oft 1  ‘The task force met in March and BUSINESS CARD SIZE. <Srcessed a the June Board meeting. ‘Quotations of printing and pub-——Twocomsecuine sacs $3000 . ‘coats fortwo tifferent formats Fear comeeue tsaes $5500 Other communication services pro-  compari He as recom DISPLAY ADS (ose iste) ‘mended that ber the present magazine ‘S450 format be icreased rn Voto 30 pape, Ss or that 3 6-8 pose tablond format be FallPage- $155.00 Iserodaced: Toetabled format walsate 1/2 Page Bach Cover - $1350  COVENANT SUPPORT COMMITTEE James Nachbar, "82-99, Commitee Chair  ‘During the 1992-1993 year, as a re- acting to assist those homeowners who as a mediator among neighbors, an DEE te tobe seach Peery pens SEP om de emer Seat aese  tioninSandiaheights the Covenant Sup- Support Comemitcehasheem acingonly preservation oar unque neighborhood ort Commie change kta she has ced wed cont  mtobein ally been ponithe. "However, ome ‘Sto: theese the name ot homeowner expensed concern tht this Tecomplanat Ifthe violation coatine may hur enforcement of cven dear o> tex, the Covenant Support Commitee lag, because homens tay Pe re= {aids action according Yo tbe Covenant luca topat hi amcs on compl. Enforcement Procedures apponed by SHH wil comimue to monitor ths st the SHITA Bourdia January 1991. By ation and mabe changes as appropiate.  ancuTHETURAL. RY So Ort, 2252, Coramiton Chet  “Tha ay age fas GACT seve acet overvie otha para dn Conasicon aad wire! Lenergtoa few yrepoes ‘property improvements are dressed iy the Arcitectaral Ccnmiee. Tue Comscitice composed ancy of vlostant whe ‘So mecibers of the Board of Direetory Saas same ofthe ratings of che Comsalies we subject to chica nthe courts this ‘ali rely adhered orem men Smee mena aa “The Commitee ably ‘sted by Lee lace, Bective forthe Homeceners Association. 1 a, isaac (thin Commaiice snd esting ‘3 opm rer over dein he Cami corse mst saeco Lev Sa, Ofte Lech e the interface hetweea the Commitce eed the prospecive hamee waar orreprseninive, The Commies  alsorerees estes fro Debbie Mandy, aga Adseor nthe Soseoymer's Aasoeaon These wo iidoal aicance tod adhien essa tothe operations ofthe Coswaltce, oes trates emodonel accalocs withthe feted prepay  sesmatha age seber a tad mid Dy hater  pene Seow Comite, ts vapor ci toe Cor  Gent, ihn atest fre oem sere’. on mines ees coating  ‘Colting tnt Tori Seiset i  eal ‘eu Yocom oe Teal Boone Bas  Nefortesetd  $Set  ux: 905 209000 core res ee: es 275-238 Since  JOHN N. GABALDON  ‘i Edward D. Jones & Co.  Sandia Heights Resbdeat  WARREN AKERSON RESTA RPRESNTASTS  “dicen NT  ¢ he ey mae  GRACE LUTHERAN CHURCH  Yow will fond me. when you seek me with your whole heart. (Jer, 29:13)  Sanday Worship: 3:30 (Nursery Available)  Sunday School Tose  On Eubank  FRANCINE COGEN  Have you been turned down for a loan, ‘mortgage or eredit eard in the last 12 months? Call Bob Chenball at:  Ages for  CIDRE oy New Mexico 294.3399 “Theft consultation tree ‘and me can Bp  Just South of Paseo del Norte HOME: (505) 298-6990 (823-9100) CREDIT....  John & Evy Woods Fine Arts Prints:  * Robert Bateman  1 Charis Fae  + Stove Hanks ‘ond omers  Fine Custom Framing and A  ‘SPECIAL TOUCH Housceleaning For Free Estimate Call Karen Morden  (608) 292-6859 HorAnne Meleckin  Alb. New Mesieo  _ Paged SOUTHWEST TRAVEL |  VERBALLY TRY HUDER (9 Musica Studio 882-8500, ‘cucun expences Mave SFeovusTs Wifensvainess  cieure ove. Nancy S. Eckert, Instructor ‘JOANINTERNATIONAL ADVENTURE, AND ECO TRAVEL Plano & Kindermustt: 808 Tame Teac Lap NB, “TerETS DELIVERED BY YOUR LOCAS. ‘Oibapentan 8  aspen.  —_— ‘Complete Office Services | Seca seon —— Word processing, desktop publishing ond i | ee bore brates angees on be voir $207 L Baie. iheancoee Ann BeechervcSonald | 70a amon Crea, NE i Sandia Hetghts usere * \  | (B08) 842-1844  FUGHT TRAINING AIRCRAFT CHARTER Preebyterien Medical Plaza  ° | SEREES “MESrre a | GE yemeo Cia irene | GALL 842-7007 FOR INFO | TUNE Albuquerque, NM 87306 |  Page 11  When it’s time to move...  i jy \IM FOR THE BEST!  No excuses, No waiting. Prompt response guaranteed. No surprises No mystery. Weekly written reports until sold and closed. No wonder Dick Dabney had so many satisfied sellers & buyers in 1992*  COLDWELL BANKER THE REAL ESTATE CENTER Company Top Producer.  Ranked top 2% of COLDWELL BANKER Sales Associates ctalapens,  Internationally. Tar tues  When you want YOUR home sold...  Rtimeiy 521-8700 281-9050 800-866-8700  This ot an attempt osc anther rok’ ting  Pun a Roundhouse Report  ‘Sct our lst update, much controversy bas scrousded the gene oft increase ot upoe New xcs by he glare, Ite ae tion | 804d! Maw tte ace ‘ser nd orgaca the gevernr andthe esisgend cr ajoray athe | Bae ceaed, TSavedeeninormed hat lous ant Secate have sted refed to cl « apocal sexics to cepel ihe | Wunénath wile paced on twalysusconsary Seen guclatanFeeden fie ronnagenibepasine | Tk SS den = Se poke pre tax is ennended end emfh-ntony, ceil the gowercor RUD mat 1s mer | 5 cean howe used! rows Signet, We afl ted against & sad sapoar: is repel. Yo one rats datetp, +0 | =  ee  ora eg preloe “wich ii =} uae eber  sioraiot | Swecuenpe ie  Teneo Pee. b+ | monles for the peosnotion of the arts. 2 nic otmettoe jeer pee is |posecieceeoaaee = c re ‘informed of your ieee a tor sheers ee oot ot Seperate Soe ee Bek genre iceman Peck pathy nn Saco cree Pr sy cmsn gbines  THE MORGAN PINE AND FITTINGS COMPANY  Elegant antique pine reproductions hand crafted in England Distinctive accessories from around the world  5200 EUBANK BOULEVARD NE, ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87111 AT THE PROMENADE (SPAIN & EUBANK)  Hi Parnegg Realty is proud to announce that  Max Sanchez, Jr., MBA, CRS  has reached a career milestone and has now sold over  $100,000,000 of real estate!  ‘This is the kind of performance that made him our top producer again in 1992 with over $13 million in sales!  Congratulations, Max! “alla PROVEN EXPERT...880-2211  "Thank yor ights Sellers, for your business  and referrals.”  " Offering my seller GEULd. SERVICE COMPREHENSIVE S.AGSBESSIVE “Esies Uarkating Fen” A Long Lis of Satsfied Sellers tx my Career * Number One in Service de Soles since 1979 © Selling in Sandia Kelghis since 1980 | 9 Serving Santa sights since 1960  Page 1s  Non—Commercial Advertising  At nts son pte and tnd als om tc oe ns Heh Hommes Anion omer a ‘Zeina’ ona pang hanes vod re or a ern oh ey Te nt Wan er gerne ate dace newer aS on re te nna ari ota rt “Both atm breed oh as a SRN arp  — ener TR gn | RENTS Sy Sd eee es Rei aaaareneee [eurscatactme™ = |seatpawees ctieneaine ‘SBetanienw pscrpoaeson | wr rer .oves Net yan |b Reems SEEN | Roriemsaene™ | Renesas oe Hacc aaa ras [nosearersK toro | ejocoapsts sme ope  ten cons th pis Can ocies | twats ceed yur owe amor pe cole | Ss Warts be one Princes | wtce sora Wate gm mowie| U Lahoud JN Fes eo 2S E86 | Sey TIMERAENSITTER 8530p. Your  "ANDREWS VACATION SERVICE. Astror | WOUSE SIFTER TnMwoaearwa | ory hoe. Coleen aged 8.8 Sartnge Sateen |S a an Sg | eke a Se rm ioy Res tcngrnen | githecnpeicesconics con | woes Hanpermesre eh Me ater | Ieee LEAGUR OF WOMEN VOTERS of ee ____ | gush at TtNG Coneys wateor vasaces ot | Albweverone/Bermaliio County NP Habe ‘5% poATEN wang Us Gaz Go | Li gn en ems" as | Ut ees sn Weseay So ‘Sanyhoey rear ce | RR Sa eno mi Breen —— | Sich ine IAAT STEFR ow gain eg pee | fan eset hcotay | wm tay Ct ond Brera mice ye avi ner | fan take scence Ory | = eer ene |e ted Gam ay onag coment | PANO, Unk ea, wn ete peer rep neing a Cano MOFSETR epee a pra | MO CERO ao Seer aes Eton nega | gaat tomne TeRGeE AL Sama eae  Beng Starr | Seem ecm re | hee ate tp a ee ‘SEFORE/AFTERSCROOL CHRLDCARE{oe “ Save perenne ADL Se Reentartn Peroni Otatma artes Seo Eat 28-0, Wanted 3 ‘amansencrmancaomarren | ocaon sivevnin_ Tan un moe | ORSTEER fm YORE COMMENT, Preemie Perea eri Strcmnered SEES coy tg nee | mumctan ach pncncacns | Mae eae Se Senn se Oo HA ES | Ear Sonimanesy assis | WaNTID TO-DO Nee wa wn  foresee henaon peso mn Cat 9000  Sandia Heights Wildflower Club  (nm the Jane S arden our, members the Wiliower Cb opened adem on ighors ice, Black Ber Road Eagle Ridge Trail Honeysucle Drie Sniper Hl Roa, Live Oak Cow, and Welt thei eighbor. “They demonstrated a wide variety of posi asingo Mending nave plain the anda  ‘pine open canon ee ap 5) ot Peace Con ame seminal Reems  ‘lh Pip, native plan specials, opened er fam at ‘Bernardo Beach nea Belen fo acl pluck picnic on July 25.  ‘Next meeting wil be a prluck on September 1S, at6p.m.,at the Ryass, 50 Blick Bear Roa. Dues (88 per amily) are now payable to Mary Aan Sproid roaster, 11108 Bobeat Place NE. 298-8296, Meetings are held every ‘thor oath Membersarc wai in advance. M youhave questions, contac  