THE  Sandia Hei9hts Homeowners Association Newsletter  Volume Number 93 - 3  New Administrative Assistant  A new Administrative Assistant joined  the Sandia Homeowners Association  with the appointment of Evelyn Patten  to the position early last month. This  appointment followed an intensive search  for the right person, following the resig- nation in August of Lee Miner, who had  carried the respons-ibility since Febru- ary, 1993. From more than 120 appli- cants, a short list of six people was inter- viewed and the position was finally of- fered to Mrs Patten.  Evelyn comes from a long and varied  background in management and real es- tate. With her husband, Andrew, she has  lived in many parts of the world, during  his diverse assignments as a US Air  Force Fighter Pilot and later as Interna- tional Business Development Director  for McDonnell Douglas in the South Pa- cific. The Pattens spent many years in  Australia, where Evelyn operated her  own catering and rest-aurant business in  Canberra. Prior to this, she had about  seven years experience in real estate sales  and property management.  The employment contract with SHHA is  with the family company Patten Inter- national, which brings with it the facili- ties of that group and the assistance, in  the early months, of her husband, who  will take the principal responsibility for  the publication of the association news- letter and the annual directory, while  Evelyn comes to grips with the demand- ing tasks of the daily administrative pro- cess, with particular focus on the com- Noflember - 1993  plex support required by the Architec- tural Review Committee.  The Pattens have recently moved to Al- buquerque from Port Townsend, Wash- ington where they had spent the last three  years. "We just had to escape the long,  grey winters and find some sunshine",  says Evelyn. "Albuquerque is wonder- ful and I am really looking forward to  the challenge of this position and asso- ciation with the members of the Sandia  Heights community."  Much of the activity will be directed to- wards a streamlining of the current ad- ministrative process and, as a result,  providing a responsive service to the  community.  The SHHA Board of Directors formally  welcomed the  new Adminis- trative Assis- tant to the po- sition at the last  meeting  on  Wednesday, 13  October. "We  are  very  pleased to have  Evelyn  on  board", said  Lou Mande,  President of the  association. "I  know she has  the competence  and support  she will need  The Grit  for this tough job."  "I want to personally thank Dick Stumph,  Bob Chenhall and those other board  members who filled in the gaps during  the period in which we had no adminis- trative support. The Board's apprecia- tion is also due to Lee Miner for her per- formance in the job during an extremely  demanding period. I don't recall that  there has ever been so much develop- ment activity -- with the resultant load  on the Architectural Review Committee  -- than in this past spring/summer pe- riod. We all wish her well in her future  endeavors."  SHHA members are asked to please note  the new adress, telephone,  and  fax.numbers at the top left of page 2.  Pa9e Number 1  THE GRIT is published by and  is the official  newsletter of the  SANDIA HEIGHTS  HOMEOWNERS  ASSOOATION  PO Box 20021  Albuquerque  NM 87154-0021  Phone: (505) 296-1412  Fax: (505) 293-0345  EDITOR  Andrew Patten  PRINTED BY  Universal Printing &  Publishing, Inc.  In  this  • issue •••  Adm.inistrativeAssistant ................ 1  Architectural Review Report . . . . . . . lO  ARC Committee at work . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16  Arson ............................................ 5  Circle K Liquor License ......... ....... 8  Classified Ads........ .. .... .. .. .. .. . .. . . . 19  Communications Report.............. 15  Community Services Report .......... 7  District Representatives............... 16  Jackrabbit Hill ............................... 4  Neighborhood Watch ................... 15  New GRIT format .............. : .......... 5  New ARC Chairman .................... 11  Plague Coupon .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. . . . .. .. 15  Photo/ Art contest .. . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. .. .. 2  President's Report ......................... 2  Ranger's Report ................ ........... 15  Roundhouse Report .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. . 10  Tramway Improvement ................. 7  Vandalism ..................................... 5  Pa9e Number 2  Message From The President  Since the last issue of The Grit_, the I Iomeowncrs Association has gone through a  number of changes. Our Admihistrative Assistant, Lee Miner, decided to accept a  new joh. At the same t.ime it was necessary to locate a new Chai1man of the Archi- tectural Review Committee.  As you all may know, the Board of the Homeowners Association is composed of  volunteers and relies heavily on the Administrative Assistant. Locating the right  person as Lee's replacement was a difficult joh. During the hiring process all of the  responsibilities of the Administrative Assistant were shared hy various members of  the Board. Messages were received by several people and problems were either  dealt with by those people of forwarded to the appropriate Board member. With the  help of a number of Board members the Architectural Review Committee continued  to function. There are numerous forms, letters and phone calls involved with that  job and everything seemed to go relatively smoothly.  As the result of our incredibly hard working search committee, Evelyn Patten has  agreed to be our new Administrative Assistant. She is exiremely qualified, ener- getic, and a very nice person. Our contract is with Patten Internationai a family  business involving her husband, Andrew, who is assisting Evelyn in a number of  ways, including the publication of The Grit and the annual Sandia Heights Direc- tmy (which, as a result of telephone number changes, is now due out the first of next  year). lfyou have the opportunity to speak to Evelyn or Andrew please be sure to  make them welcome.  We were also quite lucky to obtain Richard Krumbein as our new Architectural  Review Committee Chairman see story elsewhere in this issue). Richard is a new  resident of Sandia Heights. He is presently a lawyer, but also has an enginee1ing  background and experience as a senior executive with a multi-national corporation.  We welcome Richard to Sandia Heights and thank him for accepting this important  position on the Board .  Again, I would like to thank the Board members who helped dming these recent  trying weeks. I would name them all, but I am afraid I would forget someone. To all  of you who pitched in .... THANK YOU?!!  ·  ·············.·.•·•·•••••••••••••••••••e •11e>1<>••••- ••••1Art:••••aotitest·1·.··•···••·•·•••·.··············· ··  Elsewhcre .in . tfji~··jssu~ •rc~d~i~ ··can .hn4 ·4etail·s ··f¢gardi~g .• th~  •• new.forrriat for  :- ..  The Grit  Not/ember - 1993  ~rs;,v:ec:ra~1ornn~~;------------­ For Sandia Residents Only!  ~ow through Janu  94, we are . .  ary of  our ho  g1v1ng away  11  memade b  d  a our frie d . rea to  Sandia He!1 hs tn the  .  1g ts  neighborhood J  t  prove  r . us  Sandi:Hu. ivhe in the  neighb h1g ts  licenceo~t oo)d (Driver's  .  c. and  '11  give your tabl  we  our famous he some of  bread FREE• I~emade  of saying th~nt s our way  the past t  you for  en years.  • Parties of 2 -4 Half Loaf  4 -8 Full Loaf and so  • Not Available for ''li  o~ ....  • Offer not valid 'tho-Go orders.  •Offer valid withw1  hny other coupon.  pure ase of entree only.  9  296-8822  600 Tramway Blvd  at Tramway Road  Nor/ember - 1993  The Grit  Pa<Je Number 3  The View from  Jackrabbit Hill  By Jean Heflin  One of my friends calls me a "juniper  bigot" because so often I try to find a  substitute for these plants in landscapes.  I insist that I am not against junipers but  believe strongly that they  should have  some  organized group to  protect them from the  blatant misuse to which  they are subject.  The  trouble  with  junipers is that they are  so agreeable. They are easy for nurseries  . to propagate and grow. They provide  i11<>tant evergreen color, are relatively pest  free and are drought and neglect tolerant.  They even tolerate shearing into  contorted shapes and poodle tails. But,  landscapers and home gardeners will  WTom  ray  buythose adorable tiny little plants in their  little cans, put them out, give them an  occasional watering and then ignore  them. And, often in a few years they find  that the plant they planted 2' from the  driveway has grmvn into a 10' monster  that they must either shear to an unatural  shape or tear out, a dreadful job.  Evervwhere one sees chopped, hacked,  dist~rted , sheared and butchered  junipers, much of which  could have been avoided  by proper selection of  variety  and  proper  placement.  · Recently, I visited a  wonderful public garden  where many kinds of  junipers had been allowed to grow freely  to their natural sizes and shapes.  Feathery foliage of varying greens and  greys and soft shapes made a beautiful  display -- but, it was planted on about  half an acre. Most of us don't have that  kind of space but want the softness and  evergreen qualities ofsuch a usefol plant.  Although nurseries usually try to put  mature dimensions on plants on tags, it  is up to the landscaper to read the mature  dimensions. Among the easiest junipers  for nurseries to propagate and sell are  Pfitzer and Broadmoor. Pfitzer planted  at our property 2' from the drive by a  previous owner eventually can be 20'  wide -- Broadmoor 1 O'. About l 00  varieties are in the nursery trade. They  all spring from juniperus communis  native to high altitude regions around the  world. In our New Mexico mountains it  is low and spreading, but in Russia we  were shown an upright form (although I  didn't have a chance to check it  botanically).  In the long run, it causes a lot less trouble  if the mature size of the variety fits the  planting space. Of coi.irse, this applies  to plantings of all kinds, but especially  to junipers because they are usually  intended to be a permanent part of the  home landscape.  SANDIA HEIGHT'S VOICE  . the NEW MEXICO  lll  STATE SENATE.  STATE SENATOR  District 21  298-6591 HOME  888-9560 WORK  888-9671 FAX  Paqe Number fl  The Grit  Nol/ember - 1993  ..  I  Serious Injury Risk From Vandalism Episodes  A Samlia Heights resident, his son, daughter-in-law and 7-rnonth old granddaughter escaped serious irtjmy about 10 PM on  Saturday, 9 Ocloher when a rock came hurtling through a large plalt: glass window in the fronl of lheir house. "We were all  standing directly under the window 5  minutes before the incident occmTed,"  said the resi<lenl, who prefers not lo be  named, "and could have been seriously  injured or killed if we had still been there  when the rock came in.  "There was glass l" deep on the carpet  and r hauled away the debris in  containers holding 15 gallons. It took a  long time to finally get all of the glass  vacuumed out of the carpet."  A similat incidt:nt occurted on Friday, 22  October, when another rock came  through the repaired window. Neighbors  havt: rt:potted other acts of vandalism  involving smashed house lights and  mailboxes.  "The Sandia Security Patrol and the  She1iff's Office are both actively wotking  the case, hut have not yet apprehended  the perpetrators," said the resident.  "I've lived here for nine years and this is  the first incident of any kind we've  experienced. It's difficult to explain the  trauma associated with an event like this.  The vandals are likely to be teenagers  with good homes and families who just  don't think about the potential injury on  the receiving end. There is n9 motive ...  just an act of imagined bravado, carried  out at night while we were home and the  lights were on. I saw them get in the car  and drive away", he said.  "These kids have parents," the resident  continued, "and there are others out there  who may be involved in similar acts. I  would encourage all parents to discuss  with their teen-age children the potential  consequences arising from what started  out to be just a meaningless, although  destructive, pra...'1k."  The SHI-IA urges any person having  knowledge of this or other similar acts  of vandali;sm to report them to the  Bemallilo County Sheriff's Office, 768- Noi!ember - 1993  Arson In Sandia  Heights  The SHHA Board has been notified  that, during the summer, cases of ar- son were added to the neighborhood  security problem.  For additional prevention, the Board  recommends that individual neighbor  hoods establish NEIGHBORHOOD  WATCH programs. For information  on how to organize, contact your neigh- borhood Board representative or Ted  Griego at the Sheriff's Office -- 344- 7209.  The Grit  New Grit Format  It was announced in the Aug11st issue  that the new Grit format would begin  in November. Due to staff changes (see  cover story) this has not been possible.  The new and totally restyled look, in  tabloid size ( 11" X 17") will now be  sen in February.  Mechanical details and advertising  rates will change with the new format  and rate sheets will be mailed to cur- rent advertisers on or about 1 Decem- ber. Others may request copies from  the editor at the address on the top left  of Page 2.  Paqe Number 5  •  . • • • •  TRADE UP NOW!  ,_...,.... ___ _. ADOBE ON NATIONAL FOREST VIEW LOT  204 Big Horn Ridge - 3 BR, Study, Loft, Den, 4.5 Baths, Indoor Pool,  Sauna & Hot Tub. Trade/Owner Financing Considered. Owner/Broker  117 4 Laurel Loop  27 50 Square Feet built  around a flourishing atrium.  2 bedroom + study, expand- •  able plan, 3 car garage, 3  baths on .60 acre. Views!  #7 Sandia Heights  Contemporary 4800 Square feet  on 2 National Forest lots. Fabu- lous views. Hot Tub & Sauna,  Patios, 4 BR, 4.5 Baths.  Call Pat Lenzer for more information 298-1600 or 269-7272  experienced ... dedicated .. .innovative ... professional ... sincere  "COMMITTED TO YOUR SUCCESS"  Successful people know that success doesn't just happen; it takes experi- ence, knowledge, the willingness to work hard, a plan of action and, most  of all, it takes commitment to succeed in this market place.  AS A SELLER - YOU DESERVE a successful and strong marketer of  your property who knows your market, who can affect a fast closing,  bringing you the highest possible price!  AS A BUYER "' YOU NEED someone who is LISTENING to you, who  can find the best home in the market place that meets your living require- ments, your personal preferences and financial needs!  Pa9e Number 6  The Grit  Pat Lenzer, CRS  The Prudential Southwest  Realty  November - 1993  l  You Are Invited!  <'Bardean [jallery Park Square  Distinguished Original Art  Something For Everyone On Your Holiday List!  Seasonal Art, Miniatures, Oils, Pastels, Watercolors  Sculptures, Estate and Southwest Jewelry, Pottery  Many Exclusives, New Mexico and Other Artists  2125 Louisiana Blvd., N.E., Suite 180  Albuquerque, New Mexico 87110  (505) 881-1122  Artscrawl, Nov.19th! Gallery Artists Reception, Dec 6th!  Personal Gifts  Personal Parties  New Mexico's Most Creative Source For  Party Planning  Custom Invitations  Party Favors  Decorating  Personalized Gifts  Custom Gift Baskets  We tum the ordinary into Extraordinary  898-4J70  5604 Still Brooke Ave. NW. Albuquerque. NM 87120  Nor/ember - 1993  The Grit  Tramway  Improvements  Although installation of the irrigation  systems may continue, the planting  along Tramway ended for the season  on l 5 October, with shrubs and trees  planted only in the city part of the road- way. Planting in the county and seed- ing of the entire length should resume  in April. fn the meantime, Baca's Trees  remains responsible for maintenance.  If you should see a water leak, or evi- dence of any vandal ism, please contact  Grant Snyder at the construction field  office (299-7016) to report the problem.  Alternatively, call Mary Colton, Tram- way Task Force Chair (294-5510.  Community  Services Report  By Barbara Bensonhaver  This year's Holiday Bazaar was a great  succ~ss. We had 25 participants who  showcased a wide variety of artwork  and craftsmanship. It was also a nice  chance to visit with neighbors. Sandia  Heights Academy was a perfect place  for the Bazaar and we've been invited  back next year.  Due to the successful day, Tramway  Beautification will receive over $300.  Thanks to all who helped in greeting,  serving refreshments, Jane Stabler for  organizing the hospitality, and espe- cially the cashiers, Leo Graham, John  Scott, and Ken Russell, who did such  an excellent job of keeping all the  money straight. Special thanks also to  Sandia Heights Academy.  The coffee schedule for the next four  months is:  November 10  Sue Ottinger  5 Juniper Hill Loop  293 - 6759  (continued on page 8)  (Continued from previous page)  Decembers  Lucy Russell  618 Cedar Hill Road  294-3583 or 856-7216 (after 3 Dec)  January 19  Toni Seidel  360 Juniper Hill Road  298-1791  ~~@k. IYlispl"inf ·  .... ·  · ..  •}l&§{dght~··should •·k~d\\l••that .• there··  ·•• ~s .bj oyetsightiti Jhelastissue · ..  No Liquor License for  Circle K  On August 31, more than 75 residents of Sandia Heights appeared at a liquor  license application. Circle K had applied to the State of New Mexico for a  transfer of a license to engage in package sales of alcoholic beverages to its  location at the corner of Tramway Boulevard and Tramway Lane  Because so many people were present  at the hearing and asked to speak, there  was insufficient time to complete the  hearing on the originally scheduled day  and it had to be continued on Septem- ber 2. Sandia Heights Homeowners'  Association was represented by its le- gal counsel, Robin Dozier Otten. Many  residents testified in opposition to the  license transfer. In addition, Senator  Tom Wray and County Commissioner  Barbara Seward voice their opposition  to the proposed location of the license.  New Mexico Law requires that the  hearing officer grant the application to  transfer the liquor License unless the  opponents can show that the transfer  would be detrimental to the public  health, safety, or morals of lhe commu- nity. The hearing officer issued his  findings and conclusions on Septem- ber 23, denying the transfer under the  terms of the law.  The residents of Sandia Heights who ·  agree that the Circle K in our neigh- borhood is an inappropriate location  for a package liquor sales store whole- heartedly thank those who worked hard  to defeat the application at this stage.  We are particularly grateful to Pete  Alexander who filmed and narrated a  What is the Baba' I Faith?  The Revelation proclaimed by Baha ' u ' llah,  his followers believe, is divine in origin, all  embracing in scope, broad in its outlook,  scientific in its method, humanitarian in its  principles, and dynamic in the influence it  exerts in the hearts and minds of men. They  conceive the mission of the founder of their  faith to be to proclaim that religious truth is  not absolute but progressive, that Divine  revelation  is  continuous  and  progressive,that the founders of all past  religions, though different in the non- essential aspects of their teachings, "abide in  the same Tabernacle, soar in the same  heaven, are seated upon the same throne,  utter the same speech and proclaim the  same faith." The Baha ' i Faith recognizes  the unity of God and His Prophets, upholds  the principle of an unfetterd search after  truth, condemns all forms of superstition  and prejudice, teaches the fundamental  purpose of religion is to promote concord  and harmony, that it must go hand-in-hand  with science, and that it constitutes the sole  and ultimate basis of a peaceful, an ordered  and progressive society. It inculcates the  [principle of equal opportunity, rights and  privileges  for  both  sexes,  advocates  compulsory education, abolishes extremes of  poverty and wealth, exalts work performed  in the spirit of services to the rank of  worship, recommends the adoption of an  auxiliary  international  language,  and  provides  the  necessary  agencies  for  establishment and  safeguarding of a  permanent and universal peace.  Pa9e Number 8  The Grit  November - 1993  YOU  DESERVE  EXPERIENCE  ..----JNNOVATION- & VALUE  IN REAL ESTATE MARKETING  AL RADZKA, "Your Better Idea Broker"  with 11 years of experience has sold over 100 homes  in the past year. He offers the most aggressive  and innovative marketing plans available.  Al's clients are assured excellent service and value  because he and his staff of three licensed assistants  offer seven day a week, around the clock service!  His commitment to value and service is exemplified  by offering all his sellers the "Unconditional"  Seller Satisfaction, Free Commission Guarantee!  Shop and compare today!  ltllillO IOO®  --------- (505) 828-1000 OFFICE  857-2229 DIRECT LINE  251-5633 VOICE PAGER  ALQOUR BETTER  _  IDEA BROKER  RADZKA  No'1emher - 1993  The Grit  Pa9e Number 9  Continued from page 8)  helpful video showing the site of the  Circle K, Mike Gross who recorded a  statement of a Circle K employee who  opposed the transfer and all our neigh- bors who appeared at the hearing and  gave their time to preserve the essen- tial character of our neighborhood  Arch itectu ra i  Reviev1 Committee  Report  By Dick Stumph  Activity with the Architectural Review  Committee remains at a very high level.  Cunenily there are 65 open projects un- der the control of the SHHA committee.  These include 29 new construction  projects and 36 additional or small  projects.  The Architectural Review Committee is  now functioning smoothly after some  degree of discontinuity as a result of the  resignation of the Committee Chairman  and the SH.HA Administrative Assistant  during the third quarter. Almost 40% of  the Administrative Assistant's time is  allocated to the Architectural Review  process.  We welcome Evelyn Patten, our new  Administrative Assistant, who is now  functioning very effectively for us and has  already started to streamline and improve  the review and control process. Also,  Richard Krumbein, a new Board mem- ber, has agreed to act as chairman of the  committee. Other ARC members include  Janey Brink, Judy Christopher, Dave  Hursig, Toni Seidel, and Dick Stumph.  Give us a call if you have any questions  or comments regarding architectural is- sues.  Pa9e Number 10  \Im_  R  dh  II lhe oun  ouse  1 11  II Report  I A Su~mary of the Legislative Session by  I 1 :::,::::u::::·:::::::::~: of time fm thooc of you who'"  I  involved and care about our community and om State. We know that in- cludes almost every single one of you reading this piece. In previous Round- house Reports, we have tried to review and explain various pieces oflegisla- tion emerging out of Santa Fe (whether we agreed with them or not). Hut, as  we wind down the 1993 interim committees, move into the holiday season,  and prepure for lhe 1994 Legislative Session (30 days), we must look closely  al lhe broader scope of our duties.  Our function, as Representatives and Senators for this area, is three-fold:  To accurately and intelligently vote on issues that clearly represent your  general fceiings and opinions;  To ensure that your money, which is rapidly filling the State's coffers, is  being spent prudently, efficiently, and wisely;  To provide solutions and answers to our problems.  Our great State, which we all love and admire, is on the wrong end of  practically every ranking of statistical data we can find . . . ranging from  the high number of unwed mothers to per capita crime, to , to educational  test scores, to poverty levels, to increasing taxes (or "revenue enhance- ments", which we commonly hear now). The sad part of the story is that  the more your taxes are raised to acquire more State programs to "fix"  those problems, the worse it gets. We not only see very little progress , we  actually sec a decline in many areas. The various agencies, departments,  and administration of our State government quick to point out the suc- :::~:::::o:: :::::f ::::;:::::d$~:0:11ioo Jmag- II I  inc what it would be if we were efficient in spending your money!! The  answers don't come in the form of money, but rather in our approach,  philosophy, and leadership. That is why, this upcoming year, 1994, will  be so crucial. We urge you to get and stay involved in the political races,  which will focus on all the House seats, and all the Statewide races (Gov- ernor, Attorney General, Treasurer, and others). A little effort goes a  long way in politics, in whatever form you choose to contribute and for  whatever person or party you care to support. We wish each of you and  your extended families an extraordinary holiday season. Please involve  yourselves in the 1994 election. You are our community, and you are our  State.  I  .  1~~<)- 1J 9~ /r.t_ ~  \ Mark Caruso  Kip '.':icely  Tom Wray  State Representative. District 23 State Representative. District 31 State Senator. District 21  ihe Grit  November - 1993  New Architectural Review Board  Chairman  In a fast moving event on Wednesday night, October 13, Richard Krumbein was elected to the Board of the Sandia Heights  I Iomeowncrs Association and, within seconds, appointed to the Chair of the Architectural Review Committee. Richard re- places Bill Stabler, who had picked up the reigns <luring a temporaty gap in the position.  «There arc cunently more than 60 active constrm:tion pn.~iects in the Sandia I I eights area," noted Lou Mande, SI Il IA President.  "The ARC is the most impotiant activity within the Association. They scrupulously monitor strict adherence to the building  covenants and conttibute significantly  to the maintenance of a natmal envi- ronment in these beautifol hills.  "The Chair of the /\RC has to be a  strong, participative leader, ahle to  work et1ectivcly with a very capable  and dedicated conunittee. With Ri- chard we have those qualities  I  wannly welcome him to the Board  and the ARC."  Richard Krumbein, who was horn in  Buenos Aires, Argentina, moved to  the United States in 1965. With his  wife, Amanda, and two children,  Vanessa 8, and Daniel 10, he recently  moved to Sandia I Teights from C\cve- land, Ohio.  Richard has a strong legal, business  and technical background. I Ie joined  the law firm of Montgomery &  Andrews, P.A. in Albuquerque last  year, and in May of this year decided  to make New Mexico his pcnnancnt  place of residence. Prior to joining  Montgomery & Andrews, he was  founder and CEO of MicroAge Com- puter Stores in l'ue1to Rico and Con- necticut, and Cellular One of Puetio  Rico  Before that he had spent 18  years in various kclmical and mana- gerial positions with the IHM Corpo- ration.  Richard received his Juris Doctor de- gree from Case Western Reserve Uni- versity in Cleveland and his MBA  from Pace University, New York. He  is also the author of vmious legal ar- ticles published in legal journals.  The Kmmbcins enjoy skiing, hik- ing and boating.  "I am proud to serve wit11 such a dedicated group," he says. "I accepted the appointment because I believe that the work of the  ARC benefits all of the Sandia Heights residents and protects our investment."  Not!emhel' - 1993  The Grit  Pa9e Number 11  VETERINARY HOUSE CALLS  for  CATS AND DOGS  Think of the ...  Convenience  Time Saved  Lowered Stress on Owner and Animal  ... when veterinary service is provided at your home  in our specially equipped Mobile Veterinary Clinic.  SERVICES OFFERED:  D Spay  D Neuter  D Vaccinations  0 Dental Care  0 General Surgery  0 Ears T1immed  0 Laboratory Procedures  D Cat Declawing  D Physical Exams  D Etc.  ABIDE MOBILE VETERINARY CLINIC  J. H. Richards, D.V.M.  Dr. Richards resides in Sandia Heights.and  '-'  can provide prompt, flexible appointment times.  Reduce the hassle of pet care by calling Abide Mobile Veterinary Clinic today at  275-9199  We bring the clinic to you.  Pa9e Number 12  The Grit  Not/ember - 1993  CARS  'WANTED  Jewels or Junkers  DONATE ANY VEHICLE YOU OWN TO THE  NATIONAL KIDNEY FOUNDATION  OF NEW MEXICO, INC.  DEDUCTIBLEONYOUR1993INCOMETAX  FREETO\VING  For more information call  266-4573  onsigmnent Accents  Gently used home furnishings and more  TO CONSIGN OR TO BUY!  •FURNITURE•  •Silver• Crystal •China• Rug a • lamps  • Collectibles • Acceuoriea • Unique Items  AT EUBANK & SPAIN •Open Moo -Sat~ 10anH3prn  5200 Eubank NE (At the Promenade) 294-3400  Nor/ember - 1993  The Grit  WE INVITE YOU TO  DISCOVER TRAVEL,INC.  NADINE ALLEN  Manager  SUITE 102, THE LANDMARK  6303 INDIAN SCHOOL RD., NE  ALBUQUERQUE, N. M. 87110  (505) 888-2444  FAX (505) 888-2948  Musica Studio  Nancy S. Eckert, Instructor  Piano & Klndermuslk  1823 Tramway Terrace Loop N.E.  Albuquerque, N.M. 87122  299-0963  Pa9e Number 13  GET AIRBORNElll  -------------·i>·  WITH DOUBLE EAGLE II AIRPORT SERVICES  FLIGHT TRAINING  AIRCRAFT CHARTER  SCENIC FLIGHTS  AIRCRAFT RENT AL  CALL 842-7007 FOR INFO!  ~,  Jnc.  ( 505) 296-3188  (505) 296-5552  Joe Santangelo  257 Juan Tabo. N.E  Albuquerque, New Mexico 87123  License No. 10020  VISA and MasterCharge accepted  CREDIT ....  Have you been turned down for a loan,  mortgage or credit card in the last 12  months? Call Bob Chenhall at:  Agents for  CJDREof New Mexico  293-3399  The first consultation is free  and we can help  GRACE LUTHERAN CHURCH  # ••• you will find me. when you seek me with  your whole heart.~ ( Jer. 29:13)  Sunday Worship:  9:30  Sunday School:  10:45  (Nursery Available)  On Eubank  Just South of Paseo de! Norte  (823-9100)  Pa9e Number 1 lJ  The Grit  STATE fAIM  (iii\  ~  INSUIANCI •  STATE FARM  INSURANCE COMPANIES  Bus.: (505) 293-9300  Res.: (505) 275-2636  HOME OFFICES: BLOOMINGTON, ILUNOIS  JOHN N. GABALDON  Agent  12700 San Rafael, NE  North of Academy on Tramway  Albuquerque, New Mexico 87122  John & Evy Woods  Fine Arts Prints:  • Robert Bateman  • Charles Frace  • Steve Hanks  and others  ~ Pict re It Framed  ~  (505) 298-6697  Fine Custom Framing and Art  ELDORADO SQUARE #9 • 11200 MONTGOMERY NE• ALBUQUERQUE, NM  'SPECIAL TOUCH'  Houseeleaning  For Free Estimate  Call:  Karen Morden  RoxAnne MeMeekin  (505) 292-6859  Alb •• New Mexieo  John J. Teahan., M.D.  Board Certified Ophthalmologist  (505) 842-1844  Providing Comprehensive Medical and Surgical Eye Care  ~  NEW  MEH ICO  EYE CLINIC  Presbyterian Medical Plaza  1100 Lead A venue, SE  Albuquerque, NM 87106  November - 1993  l  Neighborhood  Watch Needs You  WANTED ----- NEIGHBORHOOD  WATCHES in Sandia Heights. We all  want to preserve Sandia Heights as a safe  and secure place to live. With the in- crease in crime throughout the nation and  in the Albuquerque area, it becomes vc1y  important to c1itically evaluate our secu- rity. We may think.that this problem only  applies to the big cities such as Wash- ington, Detroit, Los Angeles, etc but we  are dead wrong!. It is a problem in  Sandia Heights, and it must he addressed  now before the situation gets completely  out of control. If you don't think it's a  problem in Sandia Heights, just look at  the summary of Sandia Heights Security  Patrol responses published in this  month's Grit. Several people have re- cently reported cases of arson and rocks  tlrrough windows to the Sandia Heights  Homeowners association (see story else- where in this issue).  We are involved, whether you like it or  not!  What can residents of Sandia Heights do  to help? You can organize a NEIGH- BORHOOD WATCH in your area of  Sandia Heights. To do this, contact your  District Representative or Ted Griego at  the Bernallilo Cmmty Sheriff's Depart- ment, 768-4332 for more infonnation  and assistance.  Communications  Report  By Dick Stumph  We are ve1y fortunate to have our No- vember Grit I! ! . Due to the extra efforts  of our new Administrative Assistant,  Evelyn Patten, and her husband, Andrew,  the job has been done in a timely man- ner. With a new person at the helm of  the Administrative Assistant position and  an anticipated "learning curve'', the  Board of Directors had planned on only  a one-page flyer of introduction.  However, with the Pattens' CAN DO  approach and extra effort, The Grit pub- Nor/ember - 1993  lication made it to the printer for the  November mailing. Thanks again, for a  job well done and appreciated by the  SHHA members 1'  Starting with the February issue, we will  convert to a tabloid style for The Grit  fo1mat. This f01mat will save SHHA  approximately 15% to 20% on the cost  of preparing, printing and mailing. It will  also provide additional flexibility for ad- vertising, editorial and graphics content.  CutTent plans call for the publication of  a new Sandia Heights Directmy, with  new telephone nmnbers as soon as pos- sible dming the first quar·ter of 1994.  Shortly, Lou Mantle, our President will  be sending out another notice regarding  the telephone number char1ges. This will  also include some postcards lhat can be  used to provide your new number to  friends, relatives, etc.  Criminal activity  Residents are reminded that SHHA  Board members have no authority to  address criminal activity in Sandia  Heights. All reports should be  directed to the Sheriff's Office or by  calling 911  Ranger's Report  By Ranger Floyd Thompson  Xmas Tree Applications  The sale by mail applications ($5 each)  to cut your Xmas tree on National For- est land will be available at all Forest  Service Offices and Sears & Roebuck,  by 8 November. Apply early to get the  area of your choice -- Sandia Moun- tains are excluded.  Notice to Landowners abutting Na- tional Forest  Be sure to check with our office before  making any improvements near the  The Grit  boundary -- we have had several in- stances of trespass where owners did  not know the exact location ofthc bor- der (the fence is not on line).  Foothills Trail  Use on Forest Trail 365 is growing  (Foothills Trail). Please respect the  SHARE THE TRAIL concept, ie. all  users yield to hikers. Our work with  the High Desert Corporation has been  good and a new trail easement for Foot- hills Trail Extension should be com- ing soon (connecting to Glenwood Hills  north area).  U 11per Tram Visitor Center Closes  The Four Seasons Visitor Center at the  Upper Tram has closed the sales outlet  for the season (re-open in May, 1994 ),  but the exhibits are still worth viewing  if you have friends in town or are on  your own.  X-Country Ski Map  The new cross-country ski map is still  in final reprinting -- we hope to have  them available by late November.  Cross country skiing should be excel- lent this year, with new signs in place - - thanks to the New Mexico Ski Tour- ing Club.  Please call our office (281-3304) should  you have any concerns or comments  related to the Cibola National Forest.  Thanks for your support and HAPPY  THANKSGIVING.  PLAGUE  COUPON  PETSMART and Bernallilo  County Environmental Health  Department offer DOG DIPPING  for only  $2.00  (Dip & Go only)  until 15 November, 1993  Offer is good in any PETSM.ART  location. Help prevent plague  through regular dipping of your  pet.  l'a9e Number 15  Architectural Review Committee at Work  The Architectural Review Committee at work under their new Chairman, Richard Krumbein. From left, Dave Hursig,  Dick Stumph, Richard Krumbein, Janey Brink, Toni Seidel. Evelyn Patten. the new Administrative Assistant takes  notes back to camera).  IEIIEIIGIETir~  :MAim., IB«DID&~ JPILllJ~  5850 EUBANK BLVD. N.E., ALBUQUERQUE. NEW MEXICO 87111  AT THE  Mountain Run Shopping Center  (The comer of Eubank and Juan Tabo. Next to Comet Dry Cleaners, adjacent to  Furr's Supermarket)  Nl$ml~&y .. IFll'll~cn;,11 7 &.im ... ~ f.O.  §&~&111 ~ &.Jm ... 11. jp>.m:nl.  (505) 271-4880  FAX (505) 237-2456  One month free mall box rental with six month contract.  Two free months with one year contract.  PriYate Mail Bo1: Rental  Fu (send and recd .. )  Federal Exp=  Shipping Suppli.,  Priorit7 Mail  Copies  DuplicatcK•)'S  UPS/Airborne  Packaging s.mc.s  l. D.Cards  r--------------------,  I  $1.00 OFF  I  I  I  I  UPS Shipments  I  I  I  :  ~ET..Cr.3:n.  :  L _____ on:~~~:l~~----J  Pa9e Number 16  Polt.21 Services  Oll'a Suppli.,  Siamps  "-pon Photos  Nolary-Public  VISA  Tire Grit  District Representatives  Sandia ................... Judy Christopher  Juniper ......................... Scott Collins  Live Oak ..... ................... Ed Whitten  Roadrunner ........................... Vacant  Cedar .................................... Vacant  Hawk ............. .' ............ Ben Feallock  Deer ............... Barbara Bensonhaver  Yucca .................................... Vacant  Eagle ............................ Janey Brink  Pinon .............................. Tom Wray  Quail ........................ Norman Mayer  Bear .................................. Dee Jelso  November - 1993  •  •  Spread the Word. 'ltJ 'lmf  ~{  •  IT'S COMING!  .~.e ~~...ecru \ltf ~.e • •  : · filliristma:s Jtf air~  •  •  Friday, December 3, 10:00 am - 9:00 pm  Saturday, December 4, 10:00 am - 6:00 pm  Sunday, December 5, 10:00 am - 6:00 pm  It's a magical setting, featuring Arts, Crans,  Fashion Shows, Carolers, Costumes, Village Scenes,  Mr. & Mrs. Santa & More  •  Your Holiday Shopping Showplace  with thousands or affordable Items from  over 200 Artists & Craftsmen!  •  •  ••  •  ADMISSION: $3.00 Children Free  FRIDAY: Seniors Day - 55+ - $2.50  Portion to benefit  Casa Angelica  770~6.  State Fairgrounds  Manuel Lujan Halls  13 MrrilON REAsONS You SHOULD  UST WITH MAX.  In 1992 alone, Sandia Heights resident  Max Sanchez sold more than $13 million  in real estate. More than $13 million!  It's this kind of performance that  made him our top producer last  year. He knows the market inside and out,  he knows who's buying and he knows  who's selling. So if you're looking for a  great return on your propeny, call Max.  $13 million says you'll be glad you did.  ~H.PARNEGG  ~REALTY, I NC  6301 Uptown Blvd. NE • 880-2211  Noc/ember - 1993  The Grit  l'a9e Number 17  Sharon McCollum  Sharon McCollum is dedicated to providing outstanding service to  the most important person in the world ... You!  ..---------.  "Thank you ... Sandia Heights  Sellers, for your business  and referrals."  14 Million Dollar Producer  Associate Broker  Call:  Sharon McCollum  For Service & Results  14 Million Dollars in Sales  *Offering my seller a FULL SERVICE COMPREHENSIVE  & AGGRESSIVE "Estates Marketing Plan"  *A Long List of Satisfied Sellers in my Career  * Number One in Service & Sales since 1979  *Selling in Sandia Heights since 1980  *Serving Sandia Heights since 1980  Are you thinking about selling your home?  FREE MARKET ANALYSIS  Call Sharon McCollum  823-6677  Paqe Number 18  The Grit  N<1i!ember - 1993  Non-Commercial Advertising  Ads in this section are published free and are accepted only from members of the Sandia Heights Homeowners  Association . Non-commercial ads are limited to FOR SALE (Second hand household items) -- SERVICES (baby-sitting,  house/pet sitting, yard care, etc.) -- WANTED (assorted requests for services/products). Ads in other categories  may be accepted at the discretion of The Grit staff. Service ads will run throughout the calendar year unless cancelled  or modified by the advertiser. All other ads must be renewed each issue, by calling 296-1412.  Advertisers should note that this is the last issue for calendar year 1993. All  classified ads will expire. To re-run existing ads, or insert new ones, call The Grit  office at 296-1412, or Dlail to The Grit, PO Box 20021, Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021  ANDREW'S  VACATIONSERVICE.  andrew will care for pets, plants,  houses, etc. so you can enjoy your  holiday. Reliable teenager will work in  Sandia Heights South.  Please call  Andrew Harper 294-2814.  ANY  BOATER  wishing  a  USCG  Auxiliary safety inspection of their boat  can call Bill Stabler 298-8525  BABY Sl'M'ER for children, pets, or  plants.  Experienced, responsible 14  year old with references. Please caJl  Elisabeth (Izzy) Brown 299-5560.  BABY SITraR. Experienced 15-year  old who loves children.  Call Laura  Christopher 293-7232.  BEFORE/AFTER SCHOOL CHILD  CARE for your Georgia O'Keefe child  (ren) in my home 298-7420.  CARING & EXPERIENCED BABY  SITTER. I am resonsible and caring  and have references. Took Red Cross  baby-sitting course. Call Meredith  Goodman (age 15) 294-8222.  EXPERIENCED  AND  RELIABLE  BABY-SI'M'ER a nd house-sitter when  you a re out of town.  I do plants,  animals, walk dogs and o the r jobs, and  am experienced with babies.  Karen  Truesdell (age 17) 293-5451.  EXPERIENCED BABY SITraR. Enjoys  infants and young children. If you're  looking for a fun baby sitter that your  children will ask for again and again,  call Shanna McGee (age 15) at 299- 0661.  Can  d rive  occasionally.  References available.  EXPERIENCED BABY SITl'ER AND  HOUSE SITIER. I have references and  can drive. Call Tamara Eyer (age 19)  298-4288.  Nor/ember - 1993  EXPERT HOT roB AND SWIMMING  POOL  MAINTENANCE.  Call  Ben  Wright (age 16) at 298-3361. Quality  work based on 3 years of noteworthy  experience. Baby-sitting, house care,  pet care, and yard work also available.  GOING OUT OF TOWN a nd need a  house sitter? Someone to pull your  weeds? Mow your lawn? Take care of  your dogs?. Call Richard Truesdell (age  15 - reliable and caring) 293-5451  HEY PET LOVERS! Need someone to  help with your pet? Just call Keeley  Sigel 293-3866.  HOUSE & PET SITl'ER. Res-ponsible  13 -year old will take care  of your  house and/or pets while you are on  vacation.  Will water plants, mow  lawns, feed and walk pets. Call Jesse  292-3666.  HOUSE-SI'M'ER.  Responsible UNM  student will take care of your home,  pets, plants, etc. Sandia Heights house  sitting references available. Christel  Foster 296-4567.  HOUSE SITTING.  College student,  resident of Sandia Heights. Reliable,  references. Ann Piasecki 296-1342.  PETS.CHILD LOVER will take care of  your pets and kids. I will walk and  wash or feed and water your furry,  feathered and finned friends. Or baby  sit. I have lots of experience in both  a nd have taken the Red Cross baby  sitting course. Jennifer Atkins 292- 062 1.  TERRIFIC TEENAGER available for  baby sitting. Naomi Havlen (age 17)  293-9253.  1················ ······:·············•11111. ································•·i  AUDUBON ADVENTURES. This is an  active interdisciplinary environmenta l  The Grit  education supplement for grades 3 · 6.  For only $30 per year this program can  be available for a child's classroom  from the National Audubon Society.  Call 299-1768.  BRIDE TO BE? New parent? New  citizen? Just moved? Having a 25th or  50th wedding anniversary? Welcome  Wagon has a bsket full of useful gifts  for you. Call Karrie 275-3366  BRIDGE PLAYERS. Persons interested  in ladies' daytime bridge or couples  evening bridge. There are new groups  forming each week. If you would like to  play in any group or join a new group,  ca ll Sara Warford 293-4367 or June  Prince 275-9824.  LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS of  Albuquerque/Bernalillo County.  Ne  Heights Unit meets 2nd Wednesday at  9:15 AM at Montebello, 10500 Academy  NE. Clara Levy, Unite Membership  Chaiman 299-2715.  VOLUNTEER  ADULT  READERS  desparately  needed  to  read  the  Albuquerque Journal two hours per  week in the AM for Newsline for the  Blind. For information call Susan Moss  Moss at 841 -8862.  VOLUNTEER FOR YOUR COMMU- NITY! Wanted women 2 1-44. Call the  Junior League of Albuquerque 247- 1800 ASAP. New to the area, or want  to get involved? Call the JLA.  SANDIA HEIGHTS BABY SITTING  COOP. New members welcome. Call  299-1768 for details.  CAT TO GIVE AWAY. Black, one-year  old declawed, spayed fema le. Used to  kids. Comes with covered litter box.  We're looking for someone who will  keep her indoors and on a leash when  outdoors. Please call 299-1768.  l'a<J.e Number 19  Sandia Hei9hts Homeowners Association  Post Office Box 20021 - Albuquerque - New Mexico - 8715~-0021  BULK RATE  U.S. POSTAGE  PAID  ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.  PERMIT NO. 375  The Grit  Noflember - 1993  