Vatome 93 Tay Food Nomier  FUTURES FOR CHILDREN WILL JOIN THE SANDIA HEIGHTS COMMUNITY  ‘SHHA ANNUAL MEMBERS’ MEETING Saturday, June 5, 1983 10:00 am.  | Norte Fire Station -ase0 del Norte NE  | Pian to attend this important meeting, fotowed immediately | the Spring Fling at Sandia Heights Park. See page 2 for the enclosed  insert for details on Spring F  Sandia ae Homeourners Pasociation  Seeking SHHA Beard Nominees  ‘A Norzinating Committ: fr the Sandie sighs Homeowners Association (SHEHA) Beard of Direc hasbeen aprsated, andthe commtce 20m Seog soinees and sof=ting candies to serve three year teri on the SHHA Board of Dixeciors.  tag Cornice somber are MaryColion (294-5510), Robinttes (280-724), and 22 Whiten (286-1885).  ‘The ummusl members’ meeting end lesions for the SHEA Board of Direcers willbe helden Scurdas Sune 10mm. tthe Pseode! Nore Fee Station, 11700 Paseo de! Norio NE, The aanael meeting wil feature bei reports by auch committee cuir os ect the pea 12 months, ss well x report by SHA Treasorer Robert Cheshel on income and cxpeadirues for this Tscal year. Nersawtioa wad elec of new Board serabecs wl cede alow  ‘This your anava! invitation aed opponcaity to get ete nvaved i the decision rabing body of he Sans Hegits lomeawrens Amoeiina, Mer bers of the SHIA Board of Dizectrs ars elected fran among the active ‘members fhe Associaton. Alirexidesis(Borieowrers tenants) and owners ‘of vacant propenies whose membership does are paid io dete are eligible 10 vote and to sere om the Board. tz accordance with the bylaws of the Associaton, one Vote is permited per residence ar property. However. no ‘etive member ncred to cat more than one vote regardles othe number of properties owned.  ‘Members of the Board of Directors are lected for three year ferms by 8 plurality vote of ue active members who utend dhe annual meeting. Board ‘members ar requires tind moth eating on he necond Wednesday ‘ofevery month abe fie ston on Pas del Nore. Dcestorsmusaloserve ‘ther as an officer of the Association, as an acne member of one of the ‘Association's committees (Reewting, Member Services Paris & Recewion, Covenant Suppor. New Development Architecaral Review, Govorament ‘inion, Tramway lnprovemen!)-cr as crit reprasentathe. Offsersolthe Board ~ conning of « Presiden. Vics Presiden. Soerlar, Treasure = are lect by the Diecast het fs meeticg folowing the annual members’ ecing.  1 y00, or someone you know, interested in serving ou commana this ‘ery important rele, please contac onc ofthe Nominating Commitee mem ‘erated above or Lee Miner atthe SHHA ale (999-0511) by Peay, May B  Eronifyou canbe iavohed ona regular bass inthe ragramsad aces ‘of your homeowners association plese take the ime to come and cas our ‘allot for tb neighbors the you feel wll best represent yor interes i the ‘Sandia Heights community. Then joia your treads and seghbors for the ‘aamual SHIA Spring Flog Pinie at Sandia Heights Park inmeditely following tbe annual meeting (se Spring ing invaion in oemer of this  issue)  [stime to start ihinkng out the SHA Aanost Hotkény Crafts Beane. This year, Sandia Heights Academy has ‘offeced their fact to Rosse the Bazan. The die is October 17,1983 somack you calendars. Anyone interested in helping co organize the event and/or atans who are iteresicd in sling thelr work shoud contact Barbara Beasonhever at 298-577,  ‘The Recpling Committee Co-Chair Janey Brink and Kristy Kawal report thatitssil rganied and bopesto have ‘local option forthe Sandia Heights Commniyi the ature. forts have been made to co-ordinate withthe City ‘of Abuquerqae tnd the other loca option for recycling services from the Sandia Peak Tram Company. Atthistime ‘the SHPLA has sot been sneeusful with these operators and ou residents ae sill om ther owe wth their eye ‘materiak. We encourage our commaniy to continue o reqele and hope for 2 lal solution soon.  ‘WORGEN ON THE MOVE AWARD honors Patricia Cassidy. Former County Commissioner “Pat” Cassy was recently honored bythe YWCA-1993 Women oo the Move Awards Dinner. This awards dinner honored womes forthe oustanding work they have dose for thei commoniy. Patricia Casidy was sponsored by the Sandia Heights Homeowners Assocation in the Government category. Elected twee to represent District se served on the Bemalile County Commission rom 198 through 1992. The Auociation thanks “Pat” fo the many years of uscasding service 10 ovr emai.  SANDUA REIGHTS SERVICES REFUSE COLLECTION. Reminder-Fer those ofyouwhohves Miondyreftse collection dy, there wil beno collection om Monday, May 31, 1993, Memorial Day. Refuse wil be colteced the following day.  KLOTHES KOLLECTION DRIVE TO BENEFIT NEEDY AND ENVIRONMENT. tn conjunction with Keep ‘Albuquerque Beauifat Moath and Keep America Beautiful Month the KathesKallection Drive will beg Apri ‘and run through My 31, 1993.AI sizes of sweaters (infants toads) willbe donated tothe School Clothing Bask ‘an the Savation Army to help she ets need and divert the clothing frm the area lands.  ‘eke your donated wenters to any ofthe following cleaning etablishmerts berween April 1 and May 3,  ‘Comes Cleaners (al! oeations) Seotch Cleaners (i oeatoes)  Fashion Cleaners and Laundry (ll locations) ‘The Cleary (allocations)  (Ove Hour Martnzig (allocations) Holiday Park Clessers (a! locations)  For more information call KAB a 161-8100 or ONC at 768-390  ‘The Sandia Heights Homeuwners Awocaton has joined with ssighborhoods and asocatons in the City of ‘Albuquerque and BeraaliioCowat oform the Lasgue of Neghberhoods.Thiseffortjins together ntoacommon body ofall Homeowners Associations inthe City and County. The ses chat are important in one section ofthe ‘County many tines are aloof interest to associations in another part the City or County ey The Track Bp-pas, ‘Gangs, Tali and Gralii. Servng from North Bernalillo Count is Jesey Brink, Vice-president of League of [Neighborhoods and Sandia Heights Representative, and Daryl Millet of North Albuquerque Acres.  “THE GRIT" ADVERTISING RATES  ‘Newsmmecial fr ese aby ng. ous tig FREE to meubes ofthe Sua Hei Homeowners Aswan  BUSINESS CARD SIZE: Two enotetve) aes S000 rar (eomsecstve eaues $8500  DISPLAY ADS: 14 page - oe tse seso0 12 page one ene sks  lane on ae siss00 Vipugebakcoer-eae hme 58.09  ALL ADS MUST BE CAMERA-READY AND CORRECTLY SIZED" PAYMENT MUST RE SUBMITTED WITH ARTWORK  Cal fr aformation a ie require (99-8611) * Advising Artwork nl Layot Services Avalabe- Cs 247-40  Deadline for the August GRIT  “The deadine fo subsiting informs ion forthe August ise of The GRIT “Thursday, Jy 151993, Please ube mater to Lee Miner, 7313 Carson ‘TeailNW, Aboquergue. NM S712 899 S611 Advertiners shoal note vt ad ‘space i limited andi reserved ona its ‘ime, st served basi. Payment must ccompany ad space reservation,  GRIT Circulation  ‘This ive of The GRIT was maid to ‘he 1093 members ofthe Sandia Heights Homeowner Ascoxiation  From The Desk Of A. Norman Gaume  ‘Contraryto what hasbeen reported previous to Sandia Heighstesidents the only clement ofthe draft final Ground Wate Protection Policy and Action Plan (GPPAP) pertaining to wc of septic tank gd waste dspoal stems in Sandia Heights the equremeat tomeasat the ground water guaity ffs that have oecorred to date ‘Avalable informatio lear indicates more ingen coattasonspictank sem are needed inthe valley areas hut mach informatio is sailablerepaeding thee lmpact on ground water quality a Sandia Heights  ‘Therefore, the dat inal GPPAP calls fora spesial round water qualiy meoaitor- ing program over th wo yeas fllowing poly adoption to determine how historical ie of septic tanks systems in Sandia Heights has affected ground water quality. CConcarreatly, a two-year demonstration program will demonstrate the cost and performance of alternative on-se liquid vaste dsposl sytem. la the third year following policy adoption information obtained from the pec groand water quality ‘monitoring program willbe used rectal the minimum I ic and mania <denty requirements for ase of conventional septic tank stem and to develop & ‘ounty wide masterplan fr hurzan waste posi areas not corentyverved by ‘waste water collection and treatment stems. Ths wil lncide slenidvingareat ‘nhere housing density is seat enough that waste water collection and treatment systems should be installed wo protect ground water qual  the ground water qualty in Sandia Heights indicates that storia we of septic tanks as mo degraded the ground water quality {oan unacceptable degree there wil be noreason to change anything. On the other hand ifthe groand water gualiy has been signifeandy contaminated by wie of septic tanks wil nda the need 10 control human waste disposal more elective) shat i doesnot reader the ground ‘ater unfit for consumption. The proof willbe in the data collected following policy ‘option and before the imposition of ay changes to carrem practice  ‘Chairman, AMbequerque Bernalillo County Ground Water Protcetion Policy Coonainaing Commitee  From The Community  Services Chair ‘Springs here and e's ime or Spring ing. "Once agai, the festvtes ill fellow the anual board meeting on Sa ‘nda, Fe 5. We've been working bard to bring you 2 funfiled day. We are ete for ids of allages {dion othe barbecue and pes We ft ooking for any musical groups wo ‘would Eke to share thelr eat. We also neadvtuntecstobelp organize he spot ing evens (baseball volleyball, basket- ‘al aces), and tose up and dean up. “The Annual Hoy Baraat il be  etme know.  “Theneighorhood cofecscomtinuc c= ery momh, ‘come out and meet your  ‘oihbon! Iva great way to arn Your ay around Sandia Heights. I anyone ‘woud ie tobe im charge of setting up locations and dates please eal.  ‘Lat of all the Eisenhower Middle ‘School Neighborbood Collaborative ‘Commitee continves 10 come up With [woprmsfor mid. schol students Ca Temiycare workingonthe program for pest ear. Look fora newer caled CHOICES and encosrage your children to prtcpate  anjone wou ike to help oa any of the above, please cll me a! 298-57.  “Barbora A. Bensonhover  Heiglits  Vauennw!  THE VAUGHAN COMPANY Estates Division  Sharon McCollum is dedicated to providing outstanding service 10 the most important person in the world... You  “Thank you... Sandia Heights sellers,  for your business and referrals.”  Million Dollar Producer  Call  haron McCollum & Results 14'Mlihon Dotlars in Sales  ‘Are you thinking about selling your home?  MARKET ANALYSIS  Call Sharon McCollum 823-6677 mage 6  FROM THE TRAMWAY IMPROVEMENT CHA!  ‘The reaches and orange barels on Trasevay son of Mat- spray show the progres ofthe Trea Lancscezing oroject song the reconsraced coedvey. rigaion gators vill be ‘stad fit vo be foowed by th platings. Bass Toes the landscape contracior, has 150 werking day om mid-air (0 ‘oemplete the ob, When the contactor Gntsse,nighnors wil be {ved to esced planting day we wil planes Snds af wi overs i desiguced areiches of Se 5 na auch.  A seal park corner 3 being added to this phase of che landscaping. The former roadway let whes the Sun Beraadizo- ‘Tramway intersection mas moved nor wil become en enconed peck area wich shade, children's play equipment, and a water ‘Sccntan the Tremay endfor bikers and bikers Bohannon aol deg tpt eree at ihe Couns equa ere ‘coutraniy siembors hve seen prlimicaryplansand have ade seppelons.  “Daly Api Phase l of Trameyostrocon Fao  $Sipeed awn inne Puna dng Sas  Sczyeced anv obepiindeae exdceping Past  etotindededltiteonstucionbudge, Howse Coeny  1s aeherned contoninglndscpe  ‘csr oboe tone hems Te "erway Landsape Task Fre alu eepngiek of open  ‘© vathag for eding oppor.  Smt |  | SHHA COMMUNITY COFFEES Dae: your eaw neightors and pet eeccusiered wit your esubialed noghborblends athe he omy comanty  Sn alos etre a ponte Sento nenc pt hectare. Gal  Benesbrae “fey sa Bis) ye Wendl leo Lvs collec oreo seeder: yea Eelsoae!  “Tee SHIA Boar of Dirt it ok  pono ts avordnae te soma eo. Tae Ffjorunt Asoc tra sas —  peng tect me office (899-8611).  “Yecnencay, Nay 9, 1993-19 um. to 2 no08 Ea hot of Pat Fleaser, $21 Cougar Loop ‘36204  ‘Wedomdny Jure 91995 -10.n, 0012 2000 the hows of Webl Chantal, 69 Weta Bae  ednesiny, Sly 36,1993 - er, 1012 neon Soe Boma of Pray Daten, S116 Lyen Sao, 168  Speci! asso Bye Gams Adis Asbell and Denise jens wh ated ort Fabruary, arc, and Apr calles.  eee eal AWARD-WINNING DESIGN 1961 “Home Romeseing Avaras” ‘ost Adcuone ee acer 25.00, °25°50K, Over 'SK  “ret ctar & bsg on Foroaon  ey  | Pers or fai se.  MTHE PARKS AND  “Vtacenatnflonedeto bp woionbieandhiing ae These warp rapetndby boat srt SSperoticrsAdepatra prem: imeresed pe eee (seta of Sin rane Copp $a) of he Fore Sone.  “he Sana Vege Puri onan mtomatd tine or sntesag Te yaem acret tf Somce oday ahd ‘Thad, eprom om so a rs Tsuen othe tft nes Wek ‘Bewestiertom ener outers hye oaing time er tn ey mora, ope ines Sihereaescngtnorra ach cael oneal wc a ns). Ey yer and sky ute open me comune ees eee (crerSin tient) Bap ettion nba Si  * Ed Whinen ‘THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS inwvites you to the ANNUAL SPRING FLING  FREE For All Members of SHHA Guests are welcome for a cost of $2 per person.  Saturday, June 5, 1993  WHERE: SANDIA HEIGHTS PARK (Gust West of Juniper Hill Road, between ‘Tramway Road and Cedar Hill Road)  Tmaz 11:00 am - 2:30 pm Following The Annual Meeting  MENU: Barbecue 12:30 pm - 2:00 pm ‘Hamburgers and Hot Dogs (with all the trimmings) prepared by our own esteemed chefs: State Senator Tom Wray State Representative Kip Nicely and Don Kawal  plus other munchies  11am-Noon Baseball (6-9 year olds) Noon -1pm Baseball (10 - 12 year olds) 1pm-2pm Relay Races For Kids of All Ages  ipm Volleyball 1pm Besketball Face Painting  Balloons  Giveaways  Door Prizes Page 7  Sandia Heights Security Report  Do your part to preserve and maintain Sandia Heights as aafe and secure place tole by scbcriing to the Sanda Heights Securay Pato. Call the Sands Peak “Tram Co, (296845) for information on security ser. ees and subscription ates.  Scurity Tis:  [Notify Secrity Patrol before leaning 08 your vacation “Theywillcheck you hone, pickup your newspapers and swatch forsehiesthat arent supposed tobe thee while  Jou are aay. Remember to leave emerpency pone ‘embers with Secures ren  ‘Do mot eave newspapers in your diveway. This ites burglaries Alans ctf at ast one naghbor whee are pingonvacaton. Youcan neverhane toomany es ‘Watching your bore  Sonn ihe Seer Purl Rspeses ‘Tope. Call  Alarms. Motorist Assis . Breaking & Entering (WA B}® Atiempied B & E”  Neighhor Dispuae Load/Disruptne Party  Motorcycle Runance  Fire Works Complasst, — Vandals (Genel)  Phone Problems Car Accident Fires Rescie ‘Uiiity Co As Construcion Sees Vacant Houses (For Sale te)  ‘Specials (Esra Patro/Obseraton) Homeowners ca Vacation 3  Beockeen-stuewe  TOTALCALLS.  1 Ree A Ce Ay Be.  ‘SAN BERNADINO TRAILHEAD TRAMWAY PARK ‘The progress report onthe Traihead Pak svery positive. The  ‘Coun, AMAFCA, SHH apd the Tramvay Project ate all ‘orking togithert cover thea San Bernadino night of way into a snl tor park ad ike acces to the Tramway Tr ffom San Bernadino aad Tramway Lane The members ofthe Landscape Project, Mary Colton, Arnold Ronncbeck, Jancy Brink and Ed Wai  the design and fare fom the  Thc pon othe care parker bles ater saoller access. The bike tral wilbealong the channeto the tail {tom San Bernadiag, We look lorward this adiion to Sanda Helgi,  are working gether wih the engineers fhe park. The Board heard a report Huston a the Apel ectng.  em  toddler play equipement along with a grass area ad  laney Brink  Complete Office Services  ARTS and CRAFTS  MAY 21-22-23  ‘STATE FAIRGROUNDS Fey a9 Sameday pt Pa am 6 pe  Anton 0, ren ae re  THE ORT ween bi vigil lear cnn rtp of mr SdH ‘nn Le mt ol ame ed aon pe ‘it ne mom mh Fr cp epee le rea a rate aeaeSa  TE GE. 08Core Ie ager Sa  Dear SHA: | would lite to commend your Board nd editor of “GRIT,” Sherry Lombana, ‘brthe ouanding inser provides:  ‘One aditonal point shouldbe empha- sized in your nem edition of GRIT. The National erst eontars many evidaces of pas historia ees wich arc part of the rich cokeal heritage of he Sandia Foot. Many of these areas may til be ace cura sites for our neighbor. ing American Indian Pucblon Pleas be sre you residents are reminded to re- sect these cltral stes and to tad Ugly and quietly as they traverse the Inndscapesofthe Cibola National Fores.  Editor's Note: Thankyou to Ken Comer ‘and EaWhiten on heircontribtion othe recreational map.  Dear SHILA: ‘What can we do as an orgization to Insist that pet owners catty pooper scoopersas they walk Fido? From twenty to thirey dog comers walking one, (wo or three dogs pass by our house everyday ‘Many love (oleave their 2roppngs right Inthe mile of our driveway wating for 1610 deve through itor pick ie up oxe- Sehes. There appears that there is 20 concern for property owers,  With the warmer months approaching and the nerease of homeowmers and pot "poopulao” a0 doubt the pecblem will doable. rishardtotelievthatsome pet ‘owners can be no inconsiderate.  _ Cathe covenants include the neces-  2 pooper secoper when walsng (Can the oxpanization sll thest ‘hing the profas for covenant rinforce- ‘ment? Can there be a fine imposed (say the equivalent cost of purchasing @ scoope:) 0 be pu towards the benefit of ‘eghtorinod amproversen? There mt ‘betome wayt igh this potion. Some- thing shoud be dows.  Jil Shoemaker  [[ ses eatereoes | Ee  | =e =  Everyone Welcome!  Architectural Review Committee Chair ‘The advent of Spring bas brought 2 ssumber of new equests for constraction Of residences as Well a6 addons end  sew ‘nonheme fs compe ot ‘Spun toreiew an comment cach Property owner are required fo request ny required waanees a the ne of sd each Commitee member Scares: Commitee member who revew the lass and presets the lamang Wh  ‘helt recommendations, to the Commi  tee, Inthe ease ofeach new construction  oF modification excep for thou consh-  sped Commies caro mins  Taliod Te opfos ceach aging  omer ae requried won of cheduled  cg based upon compliance wih the onenantotthe appropiate buon  uj pasneapotediyic tom ‘itech Comme tu a ethorty rays legate ui” ter ratte inthe covenant. The (Ceealtcemaydeeahapronchprop tyowveriocmey Commo gh fh Sacer or mh nt these cow ‘ron im te lll corespondene Following appeal, th ign mem- Serieqexo inp teense ‘Se ue arias one ery to mela to ‘cour compas wi te Bal pas  Caza golen rouse he ‘ommittee, in addition to a bewvy Sein ed othe mero ‘hitecuraliy challenging” lors cure for enastruction, increased rainage shack quirements reqeired by the County, and an ever-increasing erage strate size. Within the leter ‘lthecovenans the Commie attempts tocnsure tha the quali fife for which ‘we all chose Sandia Heights is mai Mined. The Commitee members who donate their time to thea atvtis eur ‘ently inlade Janey Brak, Seat Callin, ‘Toni Seidel, and Bll Stabler. Jen Coste!  un: 06 29 a0 sve rane fos: ) 288 SARE coumsues  JOHN N. GABALOON oe  Norma ease on Tare  etna ow bene oe  GRACE LUTHERAN CHURCH =|  eu will find me. when you seek me with your whole heart” (Jer. 2913)  Sunday Worship: Sunday School: 9:30 TOs (Nursery Available)  On Eubank Just South of Paseo del Norte (823-3100)  Nancy S. Eckert  Mule ara - Pane & Onda  se Tay era Looe ME  FRANCINE COGEN ASSOCIATE BROKER  (505) 881-8750  OME: (505) 298-8090  ‘SPECIAL TOUCH’  Housceleaning  For Free Estimate Call:  Karen Morden HocAane MeMfeckin  (808) 298-0880 AI. New Mexico  5 Edward D, Jones & Co. |  ‘Sandia eights Resident  amen Seana re  “dagen Mert |  a my en  i  Proving sources of rant asians a coleeeusnts| PO.Sa i Abapene IST Mewes | SESRECHaD  Cathy Conn  Selle C, ty Lights from Socdi Heights /  * $11.4 Million 1992 Sales  + One of TOP TEN Reales: Albuquerque  Page 1  ‘THE VIEW FROM JACKRABBIT HILL  A Pretty Horror  Not ong ago had 3 comteration with 12 woman tho eas hgh iene whe Tagged that abeloved tari cou bbeaprotiem, Threisnodoubs abouts beauty betnciter there doubtabout is threat. Tamarisk (st edar)asbrought in from Eerasninthe 1880s anda ido well inthe arid west that t became “Satur” a subject for painters, produce ings graceful pink blooms where litle che would prom: Andit grew, and grew, andGREW. By 19M unas hadapread {some 10,00 acres of water ways and Mocdlands Todey,tenersover 1000000 crs inthe wos and i il spreading  rows soveliaaidands became of Jes nique characcrnice Seeds that ‘erminate readily and ae toosmall 0 be atenbybiedsor rodents fest growththat ‘wd Out male plat no foal meet Bests, resistance to herbicides, leaves Cnpalatable to raring animals, and the abaliytoregrow ike madifeuttack. The ands in the leases sctte salt wich, Ealing to the ground, poison soit and seater and makes sui tees and subs ‘Beappeae, Tamarik largely shumsed by wildife aswell. These quai would sake it a post ven i herent for is seater hungry hai ‘own tothe mater table, ven thie ay te several hendred fct, ds age tee ss Some 20D gallons of water a day, enough for a smal fami  “The Bosque del Apache National Wk Iie Refuge has spent some fie years Irpngtoredoce the umber ofthese recs ssthin hci 57.191 acres They te doing, {it with root plows followed be ‘eliminate the broken routs (they te root ‘grout, then burning. Tyo look at the almoninpaneablethichaes ofthe salt oar in at se tbe open dein- 2 in the Son Marca tea pea, you ‘ap understand stata colic bor or this plant can be  LesCrowder whores bein Bose, sayethetamarik prodeces has of ney. bt itis dark and strong Navored ae nck favored by most of bis customers. be fangwer to 4 qocstion about ls we a  rewood, Be 1 the story that he has heard several ies. Yeas ago whem the Socorto public schools wer stil eating with rewood, they had Cotractor sup ly juniper and pinon for their stoves ‘One year the supplier could not gt imo ‘is wal cttng areas so he asked NM Techto check the wood, They found produced more BTUs in boring thar Pinos or juniper. Les says abo i makes fod fence poss, protiding it dey. ‘Otherwise, the posts may foot One prem i tha is ict Co ane be- ‘aus the wood zed i hastobesawed Si we might try encouraging te se of tama a firewood,  ta roots extend  oalyt were apy Khe atumblewced, perhaps it woul find its nay into New Monico urban landscapes. Proty i as prety does sid our grandiechers This prety one ia monster.  ‘og. Now Toft i ae Jean Heflin  From the Covenant Support Chair  ‘Tae Covenant Support Comariee son ano tak wth the sppeoval ofthe recommendations ofthe SHA Planing Task Force, Theserecommendaionswerchased onthe understand ing thatthe covenants represent oe of agecments AMONG th homeowners ater thaathe States of scental organza tion TO the bomeowne  “Therefore, rather han SHIA doing inspections to lok or violations SHIA willactoassis those homeowners who have ‘coniplains, Since faa, the Covenant Support Commitee has teen acting ooly when thas recehed a sagnd complaint from a homeomner. Following verification of the olan SHA seadsaleter tothe homeowner who appears tobe in ‘iolton:thislterinludesthe mame oth complasant. He iolation continues, the Covenuat Support Cmunitce takes ction according to the Covenant EnlorcementProcederes Approved bythe SHH Board in Janary 1991  By acting as a mediator among sighbors, HHA Covenant Supportcan avoid the big bathe” image we fact ating he (reservation of our unig seehtoriood  Hames Nowbor  Sandia Heights Wildflower Club  The Sanea Heights Wtower Qubret March 17 atthohome of Susanand Joe Teresi. Juth Philips ‘Spoke on gardening for waste, Ofices forthe now {Yar were elated. Maxine Jackson wil sve as president  ‘TheWdtower Cub duos ar $500 pertamty and areduein September you aro new nthe area, ths ta wonderful way tomoatyourneghbors andloar ftbout succesehd Sandia Heights Gardening  The fourth annual garden tou is scheded for June sth from 9 am ut 12 pm. Caro Troat (296-  124) is In charge of anangements. This is an ‘excedentopporuntytovis somneof Sandia Heights ‘outstanding gardens.  Page 12  Roundhouse Report  ‘A Summary of The Legislative Session By ‘Your State Representatives And Senstor  ‘You have probably read he headlines and soriesef the 1993 Legisative Session in the past fw mont, so wel ty tof you in a some of te bos dat the pest smaybave missed,  ‘Tee Sewsion carted of with achunder: HBLO~"The Nex Meicare” Heath Care Bil, which finally ied after exteasve hearings, debate, and propaganda. Tew wil argue that we acedre-work in ou entire healthcare peocesfrom phrmaceutial ‘companies oltgiows storeys oinsarancecompanies.oiren raudiohvalh cae promder cosis~BUT, this al was and sme the ase. ‘The premiums tobe paid ‘o the Stat to manage our healthcare were outrageous-and who wants the State to ‘aint any nore than they already do. (if you like the DMV, youT lave "New  ‘Neat, we addressed DWI, Literally thousands of als/ltter/suggestions poured fntoour fc (about as many asthere were again the New Mesicae Bill) the seneral comsensasista! we, ataminimum, reagihcped potions tthe lw andre ‘o ace the repeat offender problem. Bu. again there are tougher laws, penalties ‘dmeasrestha redo be natant emphasis and fase goad  > YECTIMS, ot the osrptratns!  We also looked atthe tax increases, fe hikes. et. for 2 sate bureaucracy with “programs” that ave aacver-ending appetite. tata, the majority party (we thre  ‘Sc inthe minoritypary) pushedthrough anssiounding$¥.00,00innewtaxes fees, permits, et, ete. and eliminated about $2000 00 i ex reba  “Teachers finally gota tase (4 6°) this yeas badges si fac, edacaion received larger sir ofthe pic than in recent years. However, effns were made (0 ater down he competeneycxam. lower the basic requirements of praduates and ind any excuse tnown to man (0"raise”the kvelof education. and aos importantly he ‘esta frothy ening hem tothe cst common naar fin thename of "ieness” Ladies nd petlemen this District one saat reach the ‘uae definitinn of equality and farses amd excellence by palling dawathen at thet tothe level of chose nea the botiom-oné does ithe her Way around  Incosng aiacere word ofthasks-manyimes.ver-to allot you. Weare dected ss repescuates of ya, and in al fines tying to get a large percentage of ‘residents to respond asd provide input hasbeen a he ask. This year changed al ‘het the pone yem shu down fr wo das Sata daring Se ie ioan overload ofcalsom you. Iwasa Beau sigh -paiic ote in aoa! ‘We tthaveagreat deat of work abcadof wx snd we ash youtojoin aia making New Mexico a place wacre we can al be prood to ive, wth sim poveramenil ‘ecerferene, ina place called home.  ‘Ast meationedin ast stom’ newale- vet, Fepresematives of AMAFCA, the 4 Foren Serie, Open Space Task Force, Soll Conservation, and associa: ton member rom Sendia Heights anc Nomi Atboquergue Aares met with me on Apel 89 folow up oe elscassices seld la last year regarding drainage sues ia your area. Senator Tom Wray ‘was ao in attendance and his ative epportia these mates is greatly appee- ted. The FEMA study ssl underway nd we continue to awa ts nines  Robin Outen was present athe mest ing and plan 1 mae a rept to the Bar td aan fr AMAFCA, he Forest Sere and the over insemilronten tn epeiming Board ‘etingtomate preston ilar ‘Beome we resehed om ApEUS.  ave taken place, Withina few weeks arecomncn- ‘acon om the plan wl go o the fet ‘any decision-making bodies which wll ‘eiewthe document, the weeks {ill ryt ep you apprised devlop- mens. 1 woeld remind you agaia that ‘Tramoay Boclevard is ot degnated as ‘atrck route inthe Draft Plan  ‘The Commision is curreatly review ingthe County Manage’sproposed bed- lor 79/04 The oman st represents 2.786 increase i otal ex- ‘penditues, which i less dha the ilar tion rate, with no reduction in services ‘aed no tx lacresse. Hearings will con ‘inwe on April 2) with final mark-up to cecur on Apel 26.  County Consninione of Dist  Support Your  Grit Advertisers  This Authentic Adobe on a high prime view Tot and bordering the Cibola National Forest has unsurpassed The Mountain and City Views.  INTERESTED??? \is Handcrafted beauty has 3 bedrooms, study, ft, 45 baths, den with full bar large kitchen, vakfast room, living room & dining room.  lable with owner financing:/trade.  Design in Sandia Heights Call Pat Lenzer, Owner/Broker for Details  18 Years Your Neighbor in Sandia Heights..18 Years A Realtor in Albuquerqu 18 Years of Unparalleled Production Listing and Selling Estates Properties like yours..  NOBODY KNOWS SANDIA HEIGHTS LONGER OR BETTER!!!  PAT LENZER  nized 2s a LEAD Community, PAT LENZER was m o represent New Meni the 200 US. REAL ESTATE BROKERS 1992-1993 Special edition of UNIQUE HOMES "200 ELITE” MAGAZINE. It is this kind of National osure 10 sek Real Estate Brokers that helps you to enjoy another aspect THE PRUDENTIAL ADVANTAGE" in ALBUQUERQUE. NM  For a confidential evaluation of your home, Call Pat Lenzer or 293-3980,  experienced..dedicated..inmovative..professional..sincere  “COMMITTED TO YOUR SUCCESS" Successful people know that success doesnt ust happen: it takes experience, knowledge, the willingness to work hard, a plan of action and, most of all it takes commitment to succeed inthis market place.  AS  'SELLER- YOU DESERVE a successful and strong marketer of your property who knows your market, who can affect fast closing, bringing you the highest possible price!  ASA DUVER. YOU NEED someone whois LISTENING to you, whocan ThePrudential @> ‘Southwest Realty  yee 1S  Non—Commercial Advertising  As hn eon rte en ip nh fo ges th end en Homer ci. Somer  Yor Sate  WOUSE SITING Cac nesae voor Sma ages Rete leven Cat Ae  neers mien Sa Cat D0  [roms wcenex wane acm  ‘ster trp bones eon rezrr thas Rela ug ole  (ea He eum Tease at Aaa Ngee SE [AY SITTER =a pom gate  -—f pereced spent Soe  a Ee (ay Bonn 2 5  aati  ee [passes acer sirnse seavier. Services  feeb yen wi stent eee fe owe nV Cai Mec ad nator tne  ETAND CHILD LOVER st nica joe {Sart eared adn ene, Ora (Sees Cu nating ue Cae  Spameeeeerenpn anne The  seemless ‘Swick bb ae Pee  FEL TE MAINSITIER 639m. Yor Greyman Catena fe Serge he tine Ca hay S07 aker 3 pn  ‘Trost age 1, 30.551 tea =  HEY PET LOVERS ewe op ith erp Danco pte  WOLSE SITTER. Repo LAM sa fot sc f yore tome pos Pom Sade Hepes bossy fees ma se Cone Foe 8  NOR Iara 50H Mes tos saya ome  2212 TERWINE THENNCER ae bc Cenae Cat Son ine (ge) a  Wanted  AUDUBON ADVENTURES. Anne “rpeet eae pet aa ‘oy Fe fora ct 08  | 1993  la Anpath Dewees  (ORT Pen nats montero yee a  LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS of Alb ‘enqe/Brae Crean SE Hepes Ut SSS seen Uae Attn SE Ome Bat Satyr wer eke Cam ey Steere maces  OUEST ADELE READERS dos Sitepereet anne Aster Gwar  OLESTEER Fou YOUR COMMENINE Wanedvames dt Cathe ones Abas SSM ASAP Soweto ergs Grae tA  Testi tenant noosa any | SieaRemeue measenay Gennes enna ports ste they ane | so Seih emer utente Sn He  “ne formato epi ih eco bow he mage i ee the  Paglia te nrmanon near  ‘Secamgascvtsuansclesen OSHHA MDCanan Te Auger ST. solace 18  