mane  Ce aa ~ VW © Sandattte ghtsPlomeownerssA ssociation  NOTES FROM THE PRESIDENT  Many thanks to those of you who have sent in the annual dues assessment. With your continued support we can continue to provide you with these newsletters, the new directory to be published in January, liaited snow removal, covenant monitoring, etc. We will continue to work cooperatively with the Tram Company for aur mutual benefit.  Of interest to all of us in Sandia Heights are the following:  1) Many cats in the neighborhood are missing and presumed to be coyote food. The coyotes dp seem to be coming in closers it is Facamiended you keep your cats in at night,  2) Albuquerque Cable TV has made its connections coming up Los Angeles (Paseo del Norte). They hope to have flyers out to all of us within the next 45 days.  3) The Circle K will be repainted darker color.  The ice rink plans to open mid-Decesber. It will bea recreational center offering skating and youth hockey, a room, a nursery, and a dance floor.  5) Gusil Run Shopping Center plans include @ low profile small center with 12-14 retail spaces and some offices. It too plans to blend into the area. The spaces are 70% leased.  6) The Gas Company will talk with the SHHA Board of Directors in November about gas accessibility.  vy" Bleage "store those recreational vehicles and boats, especially now that summer is over. They are in violation of the covenants, and they are an eyesore in and to the neighborhood.  8) "The wecond annual House Decoration Contest will be Judged on christaas | Ev are two categories: traditional and Tumi nara. must be submitted in writing the the Board of Directors by iith. “Prizes are #50 first prize and $25 second prize; winners will be notified and mailed a check by Jan. 15.  9) The “snow removal is ona best efforts basis, depending on when it snows, how much it snows, the availability of equipaent, etc. The main roads are plowed; the rest may or may not be as time and energy warrant.  10) "Please put weeds and yard clippings out for the garbage or take thes to the dump or a neighbor’s compost pile. Don’t dump then in an arroyo of vacant lot. The neighborhood belongs to all of ust Tet*® be proud of it!  again, we thank 11 of you who have paid dues. For those for whom this is your first newsletter, welcome to our neighborhood. For all of us this is a great place to live.  Rab Freeman  President, SHHA  NOTE FROM YOUR TREASURER  The Sandia Heights Homeowners Association ts a nonprofit organization that depends solely on membership dues. None of our Directors receives any remuneration, but our neighborhood programs, and activities do cost money. Our projected budget for this year 1s shawn below:  1985-1988 BUDGET  Contracted Services Administration (handling ef phone calle & letters regarding covenant violations) — 300,00 Playground % Ballfield Maintenance 1900.00 Snowplowing & Salting (Hain Roads only) 2500.00 Publication of the Newsiett  1000. 00 Publication of the Directories 1000, 00 Misc. (postage, copies, supplies) 3000.00  #12, 900.00  In addition to financing the above items, the SHHA is establishing a legal fund. to assist individual homeowners in court actions against covenant violators.  Please look at the mailing label on this newsletter. If you name is preceded by an asterish (8), you are a paid-up member. If there is no asterisk, won't you please send in your $30 dues? We need your support to keep Sandia Heights a nice place to live.  Dues can be mailed to: SHHA, PO Box 20021, Albuquerque, NM, 87154-0021. Thank you!  eee eee eee ee THESEEONIE AESAEZARY Sat eusess  MURLENE BRAKE  TSzamove wterise —auromsteb poonxetene  PRINCE OF PEACE  CATWOLIC RNY  2 BLK. Ne OF LOS ANGELES 2 BLK. We OF TRAMWAY  Sandia Heights Arts €Gufts Holiday Fair”  pPotory Toft sculpture~ DP Quitting —- HStained glass cs) Ornaments Qh Aendspua yarn GH wreaths —— Sy Bread dough tons Qh uterainian, — C3 Homemade baked Easter ys goods &candies Sunday, November 3 it 00 am.to 4:00pm.  the base of tle tram, “pense ire District #5  eshments Sel B+  eee e eres nee  ADVERTISING POLICY DID YOU KNOW?.  That there is # County Leash Law, and that. is in force in Sandia Heights? Please keep your dogs leashed at all times, but particularly when you are walking or Jogging with them.  DOCS  That a Sandia Heights Bridge Club was organized at the August Coffee and is open to any Sandia Heights Bridge enthusiasts. Regular players and substitutes are needed. Meetings are the Sra Ronday of the month. — Call Sara Warford, 293-8367, for additional  SORES  That Sandia Heights has been named as the Number One Livesble Area in Albuquerque?  Congratulations to us!  cc Coronapo Acapemy  ‘CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER  #2 Sen Rafacl NE, Alboquergee, NMA7122 deasass"  as Seous ons Sensohatne cos ora?  Ae  APPLE CAKE 'Tis the season!  2. unsifted flour ~ 2! baking soda  1 tl eacn salt, nutmeg, cinnamon 10. walnuts  4 1 2  are, tart apples 2°C, butter or margarine C. sugar  e908 i te vaniita 3/4 C. raisins  With a food processor, using the matal blade, process the dry ingredients for! 2 seconds to fins Transfer to a large bowl.  Coarsely chop the walnuts and add fo the flour mixture, Core the apples and. cut’ into chunks. Proc: ‘until. coarsely chopped (making 4 cups). Set aside.  fraceus the butter’ and sugar, add  @ eggs and process 30 seconds. faa the’ vaniiia and process. 30 fore ‘necondes until smooth and Tight add’ to flour mixture and Stir until. blended. (the batter SEM Be seateos, Ada the apples Sha the “raising, “stir.” “Spoon Theo o oreased 9x 15 pans Bake st'Sso"for a5 minutes. Serves 12 is.  Interested in starting # neigh-  ible Study group? Call Case or Christine Swayden at 299-7149. The subject will be "Ig the Bible reliable?”  SITE  Experienced, capable 13 year old babysitter. Call Cassie Swayden at 299-7169.  -4-  Ernest and Nora Aragon, develoners and omers of Finca La Floresta Apple orchard. in’ North Albuquerque Acres, gratefully acknowledge the wonderful support from the nice people of Sand! Weights on the first opening of the orchard. We had a very ful first year, and we look forward to bringing you quality in the future.” We certainly enjoyed meeting so many #riendly pecple and making new friend Please know that you are welcome to bring your cameras and take pictures, as sa many of you did this past year. Apple blossom time, between ‘April 20-25, would be a good time to drive by and observe the blossoms in full bloom.  ‘And, "you teachers who brought your groups of church and school children’ for a tour of the orchard, you are welcome again next years  Ernest and Nora Finca 1a Floresta Apple Orchard  eee eee eee eee  The following is a letter written to Bob Murphy. Pri Peak Tram Companys  ident, Sandia  Dear Bobs  We wrote you a letter in August regarding our concern of the dangerous road condition on Juniper Hill about 100 yards north of the stop sign at Tramway and Juniper Hill Roads. We were astonished to find the condition remedied within two or three weeks of cur letter. The sign, “dangerous curve", and the yellow lines are a vast improvement. "The yellow lines are especially helpful. We notice that drivers tend “to slow down and stay on their side of the road.  We really fee! the safety of the residents in North Sandia Heights has boen greatly improved.  Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. we are grateful for your help.  Sincerely, Russell and Alicia Snyder  eee eee erro ee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee ey  ENBERSHIP NEWS  Please keep the annual Dione Brewer “hooves menbership dues coming in. We are doer 2st ee hoping to double our membership this year and use the added revenue for an exciting new creative needlepoint prosect.  Watch your mail fora  neighborhood urvey ~ we have new {deasand need your isput and support.  Cees eee eee  err  GSE.  ALL MANNER OF THINGS FOR  YOUR KITCHEN AND TABLE  ocr at \S" yw " Very Best™ "A STORE FOR  COOKS  Mountain Run MON-SAT 10-6 Juan Tabo at Eubank  