c~ OT SS wan SS  NOs —— ~~ Aprils 98s —_ Son telenyusHloniics ssociation  Now that the snow has melted or is melting, ve can now concentrate getting on with Spring. And speaking of spring, Cindy Gorman and her c  have everyebing arranged for AML Sandie Bedente re Involved with « Spring Pings See Cindy's article in this new am not re ining of thie events. I believe this "beataensi a(Royce's John, not Rabbis). Anyway, T hope all of you participate in the fun and festivities. Bob Murphy has Huaranteed 80 degree pool temp. Tf not, s+--wells  Most of you know by mow that Albuquerque Cable Televiston(ACt) has deen  eting down cable in Sandia Heights. Charlie Quinn of ACT recently told me that he should be all finished and begin advertiaing for service before the end of April. There have bees some occassional problems caused to  ue residents due to broken telephone lines and/or not returning the face to its original condition. This appears to have been sinimal- I  ally obtained a copy of the easeent document that ACT has. Tt fs fe as PHM and Mountain Bell. It states that the company must return the surface to the original condition as near as poasible. Tf you have any problems slong this Ifne I suggest you call Charlie Quian. I have found hin to be most cooperative  We will be meeting with the Bernalillo County Comataston next month to sent our case for raising the county's priority for upgrading Tramvay  ain a sanner discussed in our last  BALL Jackson have been vorking hard on this very important project.  Speaking of working hard, Rabb Freeman must be doing Just that as chetrman of the membership committee as our meubership continues to grows Attagirl, Rabb!  A big KUDO Co our local fire department and paramedics. Receatly one of  our residents suffered a heart attack. In leas than ton minutes rencue  Personnel were on the scene, administered emergency treatment, and in 3  foeal of 25 miave in"the heart unte of the howpital. Thanks to this well known and Liked  person back in the cavironment most of us know he loves best.  Ready?s. Serve!  Our board of directors recently voted a contribution to a special scholarship fund at the University of New Mexico { yrof and La ehy nawe of Ben Abruseo. This Im some small way shows our appreciation to for having had the foresight to develop the best living area in Albuquerque.  Special Notice. The annual necting Assoctation will be Reld at the Pire House( 1, 1985 at 9 asm. Since five present board board, we will elect five new meabers- Other agenda {tens will be SHA action on convenant violators, duen, and the future of the association. So please be there to voice your opinions and make your vote count.  SRTITION ON TRAMAAY £LVD. IKPROVEKENTS (EARS COMPLETION  getitione calli been circulated a  for improvenente on tri @ residents of sandia Meignte during the past  vay Eoulevare have  two sonths. Thus fur about two-thirds of the residences have ceen  to det  jeted ind 500 signatures: have been collected. :ased on results itis snticipstes that 700 to 800 signatures will te  collected finally, and that 98i of the residents contacted will have  signed the petition Spon completions the pe Sonmiseior  tie ye and the  Tramway piva. north of Jontgomery traffic light, street licnt intersection with :rs=may  to sondis rustle land 293-6755.  will en. to ats  ert  be presente to our county ‘the vounty Somaission.  that the county provice inprovenents slong  Lmprovenenta include a ure lane at each major sks that the County  its plan to xace Tramay a 4-lane divided thoroughfare  call Harry uttinger for furtner information ot  SEREERSHIE  As the mentership drive for  ti  scsl year winds down, the  one for the next year tegins! wur {1soal year goes Tron 1 July to  30 Jun  Beeting, receiving the sandia Ki  perait for w  Supporting your neightornood as Gur neighsorhood coffees are  write then on your calendar if yo  fer anesd. ihanae to sarah warze sea one. The next echedule  10.8 298-4259  1134 verigeld  te  yea tio; enjoy Pett Fa ond  benefits of sentereniz incluge voting at the annual  rectory and receiving a  ar parking lot, as well as the good feeling of  G by many. be gure to Yo cone, acne sre planned Virginia Latur whe each  sednesday, June 19, 10 a.m. Joyce beck “2yhtot4o. ike xed Laks  If you are planning to come, please call the hostess eo she  can plan.  All'of the directories should have been delivered to dues  payin  mters. If you haven't gotten youre yet, call Aat Freoxan  8% 296-2577. Thank 311 of you for oupporting your association.  ADVERTISING FOLICY  hon-conmercial ads (baty- sitting, houi situa  Fg Fact eusineds card eize = 425.00 per yesr (4 issues).  ‘All Commercisi ads must te canera-ready and correctly sized.  Hease thank our aaver- tisers when you have the opportunity!  Diane Brewer 2ooy Haris (505) 296 008 (606)'200 8803,  cteative needlepoint  2318 lg Hom Rage Road, NE. Atasomram, New Meco 87122 AK ACKNOWLEDGEXEN  COURTESY OF TH  appeal. sponse is greatly ap}  PROM CLARK “S¥ARKIE" PRESIDENT AND BOARD, 3  your Volunteer Fire Departnent  sandla Heights who so generou:  seh  reciated.  for those who may have overlooked our letter, please give some  thought to the matter; we look forward to hearing’ from you.  late than never! is is brush burni that it Is necessary to ad  forvide  je burning of trash.  of the burn and tine it is proposed to carry out this were. aissuble hours are between 9 osm. and & pene  better  ly reminded  Departrent of the location county ordinance  juld again request those of you who have not already  placed easily distinguishable house numbers (32") on both sides of  your aailtox to  ai co as ¢ cue call, speed  essences  + Experienced, capable 1h yr. + in'the nesgnbornood tne t { sitting. For sore intorna~ * 3 Hon call xarie : { Newsletter deadline for the * 2 Phone t articles snd + t to Judy Harris, 318 big +  ckly as possib help us to  we care.  P you  ‘SOFTWARE ¢ HARDWARE ¢ AWARE :  TOTALWARE  When cones to sting our buss uation robes AREAS te snare  We aot pat set computrze sotons Wo tan, const rd say wi you set te sae Win AREA yor team Jeu wi note bnet of bens aura that you faster  ‘AREA has bon n Abuquraie sce 1068, We ae the nly Autores WANG Sytem Housein New Mexico ad a TON: ohare Conair. vas have perloced TOTALRARE Sr proeding olson sere ut hetonal ent  ‘Ato err nae now shea sou phone naib: Ca os tony, 0653. Fora free consultation, ask for Tom Shishman or Al WeTton,  748 o ONUAY BAY 27th OE & UAY UF PU  Ag well known, Four weekend for all ws: During these four  1s Club has organi: ints over the past 12 years.  ew residents c!  lub facil  this year .dHA ie adding its touch, 7 1A pen to adults, teens, children and is non-: or placing will ve recorded. However, ritcons will &  to ali contestants who complete the three events.  start the zorning by riding bikes to the sandia Heignts rark.  valk to the pool and begin the Triathalon. owin four laps; wale or ies at the park. Then cycie Juniper ill to cedar  ranwsy sane up Live Cak, peddle white Uaxs onto  11, and return to the park. Jog or walk four laps arouna  the yark. An srea will be designoted to collect your ritbe:  A soard ang the Club at the pool. After, the sig splash will begins a greased watermelon race, a beer toss, xoney search, a coda toss, and a wet tee ohirt race. YoU with 2 big thanks from sHiA and Four veascns neighbors, boord nonbera, and club jONDA, NAY'27 tht  ONUAY, WAY 27  10430 ~ 12100  12100 - 1430  2100 - 3100  money search tee shirt race  The Glthes, resale  Tatura ite cites tht make You  Ioak'as Good ss You vet HIetnpeooranates YOU tor member. youe wok!ng for Sea eseething a Beauty  ometning unique, someting tie Design, Skin Care, Makaup, Color  Braet Re eter yout Brae: Marcu eau  Tig OFF ANY PURCHASE OF $60 “18% OFF ANY PURCHASE OF $80  “7Oa wont Wid Te SOUP 7Gk mone wri ats CouPON Timeless, dmprtssions OSt pe  (CHURCH OF THE GOOD SHEPHERD'S DEDICATION ‘SET FOR SUNDAY, MAY 5  With construction at 7833 Tramsay Bivd., N.E. beginning in the late sus ser of 1984, Church of the Good Shepherd (WC) opened ite doors for services on Sonday, March 24. Dedication Sunday 18 to be held on May 5, with the sche; fs indicated at lower right. All tesi~ dents of the Sandia Heights consuntey fare cordially favited.  The Church of the Cood Shepherd a local unit of the aited Church of  Crist, 2 Liberal mainline Protestant de~ ‘MEDICATION SCRRINLE  nomination of tvo million nenbers ~-a un- | 9:15--Church School for all ages fon of Congregational-Coristian, Bvangel- | 10:30--¥oralng Worahtp in Thanks= fenl-Reformed Churches whose rocts go all | giving for New Building. Presch- the way back to the founding fathers of St, Des Edvard H. Hastings, UCC Con our land and to the heart of the Reform- | ference  tion spirit 3:00--Dedt Preach  The new building vas designed to  fr, Bev. Martha Ann Bauner, Minis  varlety of community organisations and. groups. f°glt seplgtrat ‘cal?  For all of your REAL ESTATE needs...  Call one of us ! a. YOUR VAUGHAN COMPANY TEAM ‘VAUGHAN  Marilyn Torbett Linda Caldwell Setty, 583'n) ° 821-4432 (B) $93-3629 293-9791 (W) 333-5893.  specializing in SANDIA HEIGHTS  FOUR SBADONS Sie  She 1985 swim season will begin Friday, way 24th with a weekend of swimming open to all sandia Heignts residents. The pool will be open frox the 24th of slay until september 15th.  There will te a “splash bay” on Xemorial vay, Hionday, ay Z7th, with such activities as: a beer tose, a soda toss, a noney search,  9 greased watermelon race, and a wet tee shirt race. cther activities are set up for independence vay anc Lavor vay, along with privately arrenged parties.  The Swix team 1s an addition that enhances friendly competition azong other cluts in the city. Instruction taught allowe ewinners to perfect their breaststroke, backstroke, butterfly, and freestyle. Also, private lessons are offered throughout the sunter.  or inforeation on joining the Four seasons Club, contact Leselle at 296-0736.  Tne following is the pool schedule for 1985  pgturdey one uungay Wonday through  ¥0:00-12100 cen swin Fio0-8100- Adult Lap swim 12:00-1100 Adult Lap owim 00-1100 swim Team Frectice 1:00-8:00 Cpen owis 1100-12100 Swimming Lessons  12:00-1100 Adult Lap owin 1:00-8:00 Upen swis ome and enjoy the 1985 swim season!  NoviCI  AN THE PARK? 1t is due to community cooperation!  A big hurray to Cub scout Den 11, sack 214, who adopted our park. ‘The Scouts have planted a tree, picked up trash, filled noles, ond sowed grass seed. Hopefully their work and that of the sandia reak Utility co. employees will prevent a few sprained ankles during the  Brownie Troop 89, to add a bit of beauty, will be planting nari- golds the latter part'of April. any thanks tall our scoutst  wr. Bill baker, manager of sendia freak Utility Go. is very coop- erative in coordinating the spring sprucing of the park.. He states ‘the trash removal end maintenance, through the Utility do., will be more regularly provided this year.  SHEA board members have been in the park with screw drivers and ladders, tightening swings and repairing seesaws. Everyone in the conmunity is doing a great job. if we all continue sesisting, the yark will be a pleasant area to enjoy.  GERVAN CHUCLLATS CAKE EARS  14 oz package caramels) Welt in double boiler or microwave.  1/32. evaporated milk ) set aside.  1 peg: Gernan Shoe: Cake six)  3/4 ted margarine) stir together  1/3 ¢! evaporated milk 6  Hress 3 of the dough into a 13 x.9 greased pan. bake at 350°for 10 min. Remove from oven} sprinkle with 4 of a 6 oz. pkg. chocolate chips; Spread caranel mixture over; sprinsle with } C. chopped nuts (if de- sired); pat with remaining $ of the dough. sprinkle with renaining  chocolate chips. Return to 350° over for another 20 minutes. Cool. Cut into squares.  = = as Rinconada Square The Shopping Center Extraordinaire  6220 San Mateo NE Albuquerque, New Mexico The corner of San Mateo and Academy  Timeless Impressions  The one thing to know about computers Andrews Gallery Graduate to fashion jewelry Fine southwestern and Indian art La Maison = Coming Soon Roger Cox & Associates casing Agents 51400  22128 WN ‘3nowanenay 3N 30a1¢ NaOH O12 Tet  sInterior op Exterior  * Wall Papering  Repairs / Refurbish  High-quality work at  Reasonable Prices S.H. References  A65-317F  NENHOP NOWSTEL &  1200-95 148 uy tonbaenbeary 12002 X0g OF eee  LIND 3HL  ‘SANDIA SONSHINE, INC.  Learning & Development Center ‘Number Two San Rataot We CARE ABOUT YOUR CHILO*S POTENTIAL Highly Qualified instructors 4 Very low Instructor to student Ratiot Pre-school & Kindergarten i Me PM Kindergartens | sBefore & After school Care b ‘Extended Day Care F sages 2 Months to 1% Professional st ‘Clean Spacious ‘bus servic { In addition to our regular prograns we have a child and family counselor/ specialist who provides services to Our staff and fazilies. sr. craig Fierce, a Counselor in’ private prac- thee, provides the following service... "ePlace:  ‘specialized Tutoring ene rere eee! 