NY  <l) THE LITTLE esate eat  | SHA ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP MEETING — JUNE 7 10AM-NOON  WHERE: Church of the Good Shepherd (lower level meeting room) at north end of Tennyson. Take either San Rafael or Tramway Terrace west from Tramway, make a right onto Tennyson. Go to church at end.  WHY? First, we will vote on our new proposed Bylaws  ‘we will conduct our election of new Directors according to their provisions.  ‘There are several changes: (1) in addition to candidates listed on the enclosed  ‘candidate sheet, nominations may be made from the floor if seconded by at least  20 members; (2) Renters will no longer be allowed to vote and multiple votes  | irom those who own more than one property will not be allowed; (3) Absentee ballots will be allowed. (This is explained further inside this Litle Grit). Just as  ity wide, and do not depend on the Unit or District  ‘Voting for Directors will occur next. Each candidate will be give several minutes ‘to speak and answer questions.  We will listen to reports from the various SHHA C presentations on the new Cedar Hill Park, and hhow it may affect Sandia Heights.  umittees and Officers, hear ‘City-County unification and  Refreshments will be available, thanks to our Membership Services Committece.  Please come to meet your neighbors, vote and voice your opinions. It's your Homeowners Association.  ~—Aavertisements don't represent an endorsement by SHHA or its officers  SHIA rocoives 3 of more written complaints  wut an advertise the ad will be stopped __ j  Associate Broker, MBA, CRS 3°44 Yea Resident Expert in Sandia Wes {s Shetndleneration Albuquerque Native 59  service to the most important person ithe word. “your  | seca 505 858330922080 hase  MAX M. SANCHEZ, JR.  RESIDENT / NEIGHBOR  No one sells more real estate in Sandia Heights!  THE BEST AGENT  THE BEST MARKETING  ‘4 Natloawide Company Recognition Fall Color Welcome Home Magazine Television Home Show on KOAT Chanel 7 ‘Viral Home Tour =.  Local & Nanna Wes Ste Exposure  ‘SHARON & JUDSON McCOLLUM. Aedieated to providing outstanding real estate  umber 1 Serie Sale ine 1979 ‘omg it sted slr or exert Serving Sunfla Heghs Slers nice 1980 FREE Marte Ara. Cal NOW:  (Odring om Seller = Ea Service Compesve ‘© Aare "Eat: Marhtng Pls”  Fee 822-97341-800-727-497  FREE Market Analysis — 880-830  The Wages Camp Rees  Listing Service  “Bien Mur  EN MUR SMOKE SH.  Full Line of Tobacco Products # Tax Free  OT Advertising)  Edward I. Cohen ~ Unit $  Edis fll time realtor with the Vaughan Company Realtors, is owner of Sandia Realty and is a New Mexico Liquor License Broker. He is knowledgeable about City and County laws and understands property values. Ed was a former Block Captain for the Pueblo Alto Neighborbood. He has lived in Sandia Heights for five years, and is interested in contributing tothe Parks, ACC or CSC committees  ABSENTEE BALLOT INSTRUCTIONS 1. You may vote for up to 8 Directors. Write-in votes are not allowed and will be  disregarded  2, Ballots will be available at the SHIHA office. You can pick up a ballot there, fil it ‘out and deposit it in the ballot box once you register with the staff. This necessary to determine that you have the right 10 vote and cannot vote twice. ‘Names will be checked atthe Annual Meeting.  3. All ballots must be received by June 5* at 3 PM to allow time to tabulate them fon June 6  4. Do not mark any ballot with your signature.  WATER BILL RATE INCREASE  ‘Residents will notice their water bills increase about 20% in their June billing. There ‘have been no rate increases inthe past 15 years, and this increase has been necessary to improve the water system infrastructure which is beginning to age This rate increase and the reasoas for it have been thoroughly discussed by the Board. Even with thi rate increase, our water bills will sill be les than those for Albuquerque, with the bonus that ‘our water is of much higher quality (neatly zero arsenic)  NATURAL GAS AND COMCAST COMING TO NORTH SANDIA HTS?  ‘Bob Francis, our President, has initiated inuiies into what s necessary to possibly bring ‘bth natural gas service and cable to North Sandia Heights. The process isa slow one as itinvolves Pueblo and and involves the Federal Government as well s the Pueblo and Usities. At the preset time it is not known whether this ean be done orhow long it ‘would take, but atleast the inquiries have ben started. MONTESSORI SCHOOL, TO OPEN SOON  Montessori education is coming to Quail Run Center, Tramway at San Rafael, The ‘owners of Los Ninos Montessori and Old Orchard Montessori are opening Quail Run Montessori on August I. The schoo! will move into space vacated by Sandia Heights ‘Academy.  Enrollment witl be open to children from 6 weeks through kindergarten. The school will ‘operate from 7 am. to6 p.m., Monday through Friday.  Montessori is a teaching philosophy that allows children to develop at their own rate of interest and ability. This freecdom to learn individually atthe early ages, motivated by the child’s own readiness for successful learning experiences, provides an excellent foundation for lifetime education,  Subjects will include science, geography, language arts, mathematics, computers art, music, Spanish, dance and socialization skills. Montessori classrooms offer materials to ‘enhance positive social exchange, communication skills, perceptual awareness, problem solving, motor coordination and an aesthetic appreciation of the ants.  Additional information and registration packets are ava 688-8819,  lable by calling Amber Skorka, at  Size Bedroom Set for sale. Make offer! Call Carla at 828-1883  Contemporary Southwest King  YOU CALL, PLL MAUL  =pg. DUMP RUNS, FURNITURE MOVING, WE aun Io GoUUWILLLRe  ‘CONWAY WALLCOVERING  S30/LOAD CALL FOR DETAIL  Frank Conny Phone: 505-797-2255 AS DECKER 850-6704 Aaguergue. NM 37109 Cel 505:306.2500 TRAVIS  QUALITY SERVICE AT A GREAT PRICE  Quail Run Montessori Scli OPENING  Rolfing®  Sructural Fregration  CYNTHIA D ORSCH, MS Certified Rotfer® Siege memeretteerser., Sisal Riedie  505.440 3499 cadrolf@lobo net  SOON!  Amber Skorka, Director 688-8819  Tranny at Son Rafael  ‘Announcement: The Board, in transitioning between the current and new Bylaws, has decided to pre-lect new officers who wil assume office following the Annual Meeting, These will be:  President ~ Bob Fi (incumbent President)  VP = Ralph Rudolph (Board member)  ‘Treasurer~ Cheryl Iverson (past Asst. Treasurer)  Secretary = To be decided  Nominations for the Board of Directors, 2003  Please note that 8 new Directors are to be elected. There are 8 known declared candidates listed below. Candidates may also be nominated from the floor and may run if supported by at least 20 members. All candidates shall make a statement oftheir credentials and why they wish to serve on the Board. Those candidates receiving the highest number of votes will be elected (including absentee ballots)  Kemey W. Bolton — Unit 4  ‘Kerney isan afcitec engaged in residential design, a Master of Architecture graduate of UNM He has been a resident of Sandia Heigus sine 1997. He is stronaly interested in  ing 1 update and unify Unit convenants to enhance thei original intent while laiVing their content and improving their legal standing He'd also like to work towards increasing safety and secutity  James R, Erspamer ~ Unit 5  James recently retired as Vice President of Engineering at Honeywell Defense Avionics Systems, where he had major responsibilities i stateyic pannins, new business development, and supervision of over 1000 personne at to sites. He offers strong. leadership, planing and commaication sis. He wishes to help the homeowners Board to mainain the “quality of ife” in Sandia eights and to blp represent Unit S owners Jim has been a resident for 18 years.  Bob Francis ~ Unit 11  Bob worked for IBM, Memorex and Varian Associates and as an MBA. He retired in the late 90's and moved to Sanda Heights from Campbel,CA where he was deeply involved in many community nd county affairs. As an example, he was Chairman ofthe ‘iy of Canpbell Community Development Block Grant Committee. Bob is our incumbent President and wishes to continue serving Sandia Height in that capacity for another year  Frank Gilfeather ~ Unit 12  Professor Gilfeather is Interim Associate Vice Provost for Research at UNM, with responsibilities involving campus wide research initiatives and planning. He was Executive Director of High Performance Computing Education and Research Center, and has over 34 years experience in teaching mathematics and planning research, and has served on NRC, and NSF and advised DOD and DOE.  ‘Anton (Tony) Salem — Unit 15  ‘Tony retired in 1991 as a Vice President of McDermott Intemational with responsibility for evaluating venture capital investments, managing of corporate planing, providing international perspective, negotiating licenses, and reviewing all product development plans. Prior 0 that he was Vice Presiden of worldwide marketing. and is fuent in many languages including Spanish, Arabic, Portugese, alan and Tagalog. He is long-time resident of Sandia Heights and wishes to contribute tothe community  Mona Lee Schilling ~ Unit 25  “Mona was the Agent-Owner of Carlos Alvarado Talent Agency, the oldest family-owned franchised agency. Her background i in journalism and creative writing. Mona was appointed to the Board in 2002 and has enjoyed being a member. She wishes to continue to serve in any capacity to help preserve the character and integrity of our unique area  Heinz W. Schmitt ~ Unit 15  ‘Heinz retired from Sandia National Laboratories in 1998, where he was responsible for ‘managing large projects, strategic planning and personnel management. He also served ‘on numerous industrial and technical society BOD’s. He has served as a volunteer on the ‘Covenant Support Committee and filled a BOD vacancy when that became available this ‘past year, continuing to serve of the Covenant Support Committee and Membership Services Committees. He has been a resident for 14 years and wishes to continue to contribute 1 SHIA to help improve our unique environment and atmosphere,  Bdward E. Whitten ~ Unit 3  ‘Edward recently retired from Honeywel, where he was an Engineering Manager. He has previously served on the SHHA Board ffom 1990-1994 and was Viee President for a short time. He served as Chairman of the Parks and Recreation Committee, and on covenants, membership, the Spring Fling, and Christmas Lights contests. He is quite concerned about National Forest access, He has been a resident for 21 years Referral Sorvice *+ Ucensad, Insured Contractors ond Handymen, + Honest, Accurote Job Prices. Guarontoed Work  Tiecnd or Seted Come x Call 275-2758  worwshendyskils.com  HANDIWORK 3%  Ay g me VAUGHAN  OA COUMANY REALTORS I oconen  Dr veer te ny 2st cs  Thomas Smide It  Tax, Estate & Business Law, NALLLC 41117 Montgomery Bie. NE ‘Abuquerque, NM 87109,  8) non 905 00-400  CONFUSING OPTIONS?  Cate ap pnts Se een  (505) 292-4858 ACES  Personal Care Services, LLC  Ladies and Gentlemen Pre  Preferre  Heating & Cooling  “*Your Preferred Contractor” ESDXKTHL COMMERCIAL GR) SALES SERMICE: REAR  eb Pit  ‘awe Lang To Caw Speci  Lng Tem Co Dion 5 lak Bo Loop, Abrus, MM 87122 50.707 2506 Fx 0-77-04  Gonoral Ecc Copal Assurance Company  THELITTLE GRIT  eum on  Boas Raver] fererertries arse renee 91et-zetee wa goduandawTy  WN Gs wwe SOWTS aps, ToTrtW O19TA 3 UROe  600-2 4SSMUaze,  JD MPT aL  ss408 UPCOMING EVENTS******  “The Anmual Garden Walk i sched for Stay Jane 18. The first garden on ‘ the wal tthe home ef Donan an Herp 7886 Tranay Pace imation gh feral aren on the atk wil be wate st tion. ent Sana PN Hoghtsae wecome 0 vit the acs os the wal Pls remember athe SO GSERE® mes ena ope dng he walk nde ee you ptt home  ‘The Sammer Field Trip willbe a guided tour featuring the widowers of Sandia Mountain. Fina plans will ten place in July, but wil be to late fo the next isue ofthe Grit All nterested Sandia Heights residents are wekcome to Jom the club members for this activity. Please contact Khondeh Payne at 797-1306 in hy for Starting point, dite, and tine  ‘To become a member, please send a check for the anmual membership fee of S8.00/person oF '10.00/couple payable to the Sandia Heights Wildflower Chb te: Susan Cook, 1862 Tramway Terrace Loop NE, Albuquerque, NM 87122. 