din Heights Homeowners Association  BOARD DIRECTORS NEEDED  By: Jack Wolfe  time once again to seck candidates ofl ethcoming vacancies on the Sandia Heights Homeowners’ As- sociation's(SHHA) Board of Directors (Board). This year there are five Directo positions that will need tobe filled. ‘The Directors are elected for a. three-year term by the SHA membership at the Annual Geoeral Membership ‘Meeting held the first Saturday in June of each year. This year's mecting willbe held ca June 7.  ‘What qualifications are required to be a Director? The most important qualifications are the interest and the silty (skills and particularly tine) to support the mission ofthe SHHA Board. This mission is to coordinate Planning and implementation of selected services and activities t promote the commen interets and welfare of the home and property owners within Sandia Heights snd to assist in mainaining the quality of life for which the development was established. Each Director functions as Board meme and also asa member of a eat one of the Board's major committees. A complet: list of major committees and their general responsibilities is contained in the yellow pages of the SHIHA’s 2002 Directory of Residents. In terms of time, most Directors generally spend an average of four to six hours per week doing Board and related Commit functions and duties.  The Board continucs to pursue having a least one representative from each ofthe 12 “Districts” within Sanda eights. It's felt that such representation is necessary to ensure that thatthe interests, concerns and ee. of those within each Distt are represented on and recognized by the Board  ‘This year the Board is loking for one representative from each of the Districts noted below. ‘The specific “Units” encompassed within each of the Districts is as noted.  Diswiet Encompass Us Sandia 0,1,283 Noah Live Oak 3.84 South RoadRunner $86 South Quail 16,194 20 Bear 26,278 28  If you reside in one of the sbove noted Districts and are interested in joining your SHHIA’s BOD, you are requested to submit « short resume reflecting your pertinent skills and experience that would be of value to the SHHA. Anyone having questions on becoming 2 candidate fr the Board should cal the SHHA office at 797-7793,  Watch for more articles on this subject appear in your Crit as the Goeral Membership Meeting and lection of Directors draws closer.  SANDIA H  Covenant Support Committee Covenant Review Project rank Soper, Chair  The covenants are established to provide & level of control over the Sandia Heights area to ‘assure the homeowner that property values are maintained and that the area retains the “open Space” atmosphere that most moved here to en}. 1 seems thatthe members ofthe Covenant Support ‘Committee (CSC) are asked to interpret somewhat ‘vague statements inthe numerous sets of covenants within Sandia Heights. In fuct, Sandia Heights has 38 individual sets of covenants, each of which docs rot necessarily cary the same requirements as For iotance, some Property lines hile ‘others do not, some have 38 foot setbacks from streets while others have 45 foot setbacks, some state no visible lawas while ethers do not address ‘this issue, and some require screening for all mechanical equipment while others do ot These are only a very few ofthe dferences between the various covenants and for the CSC member it becomes a very difficult task sorting out what is ‘okay and what is not okay. Clarity and enforceability of covenants across Sandia Heights is ‘an sve that should he arensed In that spirit, the CSC along with several ‘volunteers from the community are undertaking the task of reviewing the covenants so that the property ‘owner can be assured that property values are ‘enhanced. The current covenants while different i many instances, are similar in many others. ‘Covenant interpretation by & property owner oF & ‘CSC member can difler, subsequently causing enforcement problems. If we all want ove property ‘values to be enhanced, one way to assist this effort is through the development of a consolidated, more useable, easier undentood set of covenants, therefore the covenant review project of the  Covenant Support Committee. This is not an attempt to make covenanis more restrictive. In fact, wwe are identifying which covenants might be problematic and how they might be clarified. This effort will not be an overnight task. Insicad much ‘work will have to be accomplished with respect to consistency among the units, defining terms to make them more easily understood, and making the ‘covenants more reader friendly and therefore useable and enforceable. The CSC review effort has stared. Throe commitices have heen fstablished to address problem areas. with the ceurent covenants. The first is looking into how ‘covenanis might be consolidated Uuoughout Sandia Heights. The second is reviewing language and Imerpretation issucs and how they might be ‘resolved, and the thir is focused on reaching out to the residents of Sandia Heights to provide information and updates and to seek and receive input asthe project progresses.  ‘As you know, none of the covenants can be changed unless a specified majority of the proper ‘owners concur with the changes. As the CSC review effort comes more into focus, detailed information will be made available to all homeowners through separate mailings, through ‘wecbite postings, through door-to-door campaigns, and through community mectings to solicit ‘comment and input to the process and to the final result, We who are currently engaged inthis effort would welcome any input from the residents of Sandia Heights. If you have comments. or suggestions, they may either be Je atthe SHIHA office or e-mailed tothe office.  AAA  ‘Traffic and Safety Committee “Mark Bostough, Chair  {Lam pleased do be the new chairman ofthe Traffic and Safery Committee. I believe that the peates safety problem we have in our community is speeding This moming, as 1 was crossing ‘Tramway Lane, two tucks (AAA Gas and WM Pumping) sped passed me going atleast twice the ‘ostod speed limit  Please help keep our streets safer for everyone. When you call to request service, please consider reminding companics that we have 15 mph speed limits on most of our streets,  fen  Page #2 Tanuary — Fe 200!  ui  Architectural Control Committee Jack Wolfe, Chair  ring the period November thra December 2002, the ACC reviewed 13 applications submited to it foe review aod approval. These applications were submitted tothe ACC in compliance with requirements set forth inthe Restrictive Covenants applicable  ‘the various Units within Sandia Heights. AS all should bbe aware, these Restrictive Covenants area pat of the deed to cach property within Sandia Heights. All should also be avtare that the Restrictive Covenants within each Unit are distinct and different. The ACC's review process is to ensure that actions set forth in each application ae in compliance with the Unit ‘covenants within which the property is locate.  The following is a summary of those applications reviewed to include those that were approved and those ut remained under review/pending appeoval at the end of December 2002. ‘This summary reflects the propery address and the  ‘pee ten dame uth poten Applications Approved: Lat Big Hore Ree Dove Ladsaing 20 Sein tighs Deve Seicming Foot 9101 tym Laop Resnece Hor Siaael Ave Wall & Patio ro Lael Loop ‘ition 755 Tramway Lane Aton 19 Goa a {edscying 1458 Tramway Teme Loop ReStcto 9 Coupe Lop Ware Slotammy te Aon 1S HoneymchieDe Wal Patio & Re Sus Applications Pending: woreallRan Dr Feace Ps ramwaytane Garage Adin Vi WY  ia  From the President Bob Francis  ‘The SHHA Board of Directors has been working very hard the past six months 1 improve the management of your association. The by-laws have been revised and the revisions ae now inthe process of being approved by the board. The covenants are being reviewed to determine if they can be streamlined. A. more uniform set of covenants will help the ‘covenants commitee enforce the SHHA restrictions. The Architectural Control Committee continues to stay bury. See article ths page. The legal liaisons on the board have belped SHA deal with several sticky issues. The Communications Commitice continues thie tireless work to produce the “Get”. The Finance ‘Committee continues to ensure that our cash postion is manageable.  ‘The point i, that al his effort, and there's a 1 more | did’ mention, is being done by volunteers. ‘Your SHHA volunteers are the backbone of this ‘organization. The next time you tak to a member of ‘the SMITA board, please thank them for the hard work they ae doing.  Neighborhood Review Artic  ‘There have been many questions regarding the ACC use of neighborhood reviews relative to new ‘construction and major remodeling efforts. These ‘questions have ranged from the purpose of such, why Ihave thers, ey some tesidents were ot notified of such and ec.  ‘One member ofthe ACC has taken the tine to ‘write an article covering the ACC's neighborhood review purpose, process and te. Needless to say this tured out tobe a lengthy article because of all the <etailed information contained therein. In fact. the article tured out to be too lengthy for this issue ofthe Grit. However, a copy of the article can be picked up atthe office. It is also posted on the SHHA's website  (ihe Grit  Tage os Tanwary —Febreary 2003)  Security's mobile number  263-4654  ‘SANDIA HEIGHTS SECURITY,  IMPORTANT FACT: ‘Sania Heights Services is ot in anyway apr of ‘Sandia Heights Homeowners Association. = “Ths company roids mary prant sevcs tothe resident of Sandi Hep al San Highs Services pid andor contac vith SHA, to cies met member fe ihe yi IE yeu ar ot cpg pay fer the sear provided ty Sandia Heights Scewiy we urge yout call cle at 837-8928 ‘24 jin up thr service docs help pte al Sanda Heh  From Sandia Heights Services [Security - Sanitation] ‘John Pickering, Manager  1 would like to thank all the residents of Sandia Heights forthe Christmas “goodies” that we at Sandia Services received. Your gifts are appreciated and remind us ofthe great people we seve.  ‘On the Sanitation side, I would also lke to thank all ofthe residents who participated inthe Christmas tree recycling program that Rowland’ Nursery o- sponsored. Itnot only makes our job a lite easier, but it is also a great way to help the community.  ‘A resident has expressed concem over some of ‘our security officers carrying sidearms. For the purpose ‘of information dissemination the following is submited  > The policy of this company under which these offices may discharge their firearms is for ‘she protection of human life only, Theirs or then.  > Our officers that carry sidearms ae licensed ‘by the Stato of New Mexico to do so. They ate twainod by a NRA certified instructor and are  >The training, member of the U.S. Navy shooting tex (command level) and is certified not only to ‘struct atthe security officer level but atthe law enforcement level as well. Additonaly, he is ‘curently a shooting range safety officer. ‘Anyone interested in taking a. shooting or Firearm safety course fom him should contact ‘Walt Small @ 293-4811  tis interesting to note that in over thirty years of service, none of our officers has yet to discharge their weapon in the course of their duties.  ~ an >  {fhe Ge Page  —inneary Fabra 2009} [ Theat  HANDIWORK 3%  Referral Service + censed, Insured Contractors ond Handymen + Honest, Accrate Job Prices. Guoronteed Work  a Call 275-2758 hon ‘WINDOW  Sandia Environmental Designs CLEANING Landscape Design & Consultations vere  Cleanup & Houling BA  292-6487  3008 Adverising  Dan Caudillo (505) 856-6617 ae  Jett Speck, COR (05) 45655233  Lea S19. aase  Design & Construction nett re Mona 4922 vi rehab an 1 eke REALTYAINC  FREE Market Analysis Lacie Muelr  ‘Nbuquergie, NM 971 os) 97-1015.  ‘contractor and want to  find someone your neighbors in Sandia Heights were satisfied with  come to the office and check our residents Contractors Evaluation Book, it may help you. Church of the Good Shepherd @nited Church of Christ  & mae ALE sunday sree 030 aM SG  MIN sannia Heichrs services Sandia Peak Utility Company  ‘mvqoerque NPT 7122  erento  conte Gace)  AIR PRO  Office Equipment  Xen  one, sosnse.795 THOMAS SCHIMOLER  enw Nc je hte  Sandia Presbyterian Church  Conmunty tation Cama jain un tor Merit  Judson MeCollam  FREE Market Analysis S10  Treasurers Report  Letter to the Editor ‘Submited to late for the ast Gri  Over the last few years the covenant and architectural control commitees of SHHA have caused residents suess and financial loss over the committees’ often incorrect and arbitrary interpreation of the covenants. The committee members have rather imposed their personal taste of ‘opinion. These issues offen involve trees and view blockage as well a5 Commitee members’ tastes in color and esign, supposedly for a concept of “architectural harmony", but such requirements are not in the Covenanis. ‘This has led to legal battles, ‘which are given as reason forthe new dues increase from $5 0 $8.  ‘The Board of SHIA has spent money from the SHHA reserves for purposes other than those for hich the money was collect without submitting their proposed action to the membership for a vote. For ‘example, $19,000 was taken from SHITA reserves as “donation” tothe development of Cedar Hill Park at the same time the Board claims to need more money for pursuing the lepal actions mentioned above. (The ‘Cedar Hil Pack project is a County and State open space project and flly funded by them.)  The Board, in the Gri, solicits “comments” from the membership on issucs such as the proposed budget, but then neither prins comments submitted nor are they distributed to members ofthe Board,  If you, also, bave concems about matters such as these please contact any ofthe following:  Jane and Terry Matthews - 797-9433, Federici ~ 797-1710, Chris Harmon ~ 85 | Jim Sauvage 856-7658.  NOTICE NEW OFFICE HOURS  1 has been decided that Lesping the office ‘open from Tam to Spm each day did not cause 2 puilicaat increase inthe ue ofthe office and wa “Therefore the office has reverted tis original thousand in the fate willbe pen fom:  11am to 3 pm Monday through Friday  Rick Nelson, Treasurer Cash Flow — December 2002 RECIEVED ace $7500 Inver 22090 Members Dues 111 ‘Total Received ____s7a16m DISBURSED Commie Expense Communications suas Insurance Direcios Officers Unbrlla sos Oise expense Clean Ofice B82 Gompater Lease 1322 (Comesst Inert Service 58.00, Bleticty 929 Equipment Upkeep 39630 Mis 1200 Office Lease siss5 Permits, bulk mai 13000 Seouity 13.95 Telepbone 16.92 Offie Sat awe 1106275 Taxes, IRS 2002, fal or yar 3520 ‘Total Disbursed __s 749525 ‘Received ls Dura S187 $was369 3620019 154.67 S55097.9 8398537 ass 539644 ‘25.08 $00.00 991.10 13034 Security Deposits 191575 ‘Wine Testing Inventory 909 ‘Tal ther Assets 6.0 ‘Toul Asse S7.18951 Liabilities Pledged Open Space Reserve $19,000.00 ‘Legal Reserve 1000.00 ‘Tota Liabilities Sast1123 Cash_& in Banks tes abies 738626 Ihe Grr Pase #7  Tannare > Baheoos TAN  DAR HIL  Parks Committee Seeks Homeowner Input on  Cedar Hill Park Design By: Mark Boslough Parks & New Development Committee  Two years ago, county taxpayers spent {$635,000 to purchase 3.75 acres of land for a new park at the comer of Cedar Hill Road and Tramway Bivd. Last year, the Sandia Heights Homeowners ‘Association committed $19,000 of its ‘members’ money to help get the project started. Our park is now in the design phase, and the Parks & New Development Committee wants to hear from you. Since you are footing the bill, we want to make sure that we hear your ‘opinion. We will aso keep you posted of county meetings and encourage you to attend and present your views directly There are lot of factors to consider, and ‘we will seck a consensus. How much of the screage should be park, and what fraction should be left undeveloped? Should there be shade trees or should views be lef unobscured? What kind of playground equipment is most desirable? ‘What about ball fields and courts for our kids? Please watch the Grit for further announcements  Cedar Hill Park Update By Bob Christman  ‘This park will be located on the property that is on the southeast comer of Tramway Blvd. and Cedar Hill Rd. Bernalillo County Parks & Recreation Department was very enthused when they received the $19,000.00 donation from Sandia Heights Homeowners Association on January 15, 2003. As those of you who have been following cxe updates know, community involvement is very important to the Parks & Recreation Dept. This support from SHHA. was the catalyst needed 10 get the park project on track for 2008.  The Bemalillo County Parks and Recreation Department will be holding their normal public meetings during the next several months for input on the park. They want the community to have imput regarding the overall scope and ‘equipment that will be provided for the enjoyment of all who see and use the park. The schedule for the public ‘meetings will be published in the Grit  f+  fiiecee Page  Tanary = February 2005)  Communications and Publications Committee Rick Nelson, Chair  The busy time of the year is about to conclude, aad you wll not hear me complain about  The Grit. The Grit was delayed itis rath whi me faethe adverisng that wil appear te Yur 2003. Once we ba he copy snd te Tiyut compled we souk get this te rated Ons agin we hak those adverisr tat Sopport your sociation by averting in our plcaions  ‘The Directory: We should have the 2003 Dicetry pated snd ile 1 you is the ter prt cL Febnry. A pel el of toe hs Been pe rorking om or thse t make certain all the Teng are comet.  . ‘The Residents Guide: This will not be # part of our decry ths pear. We po hee Fis, prised and aed someting May  ‘The Web Ses Atl geting posted ine tines meme All pproved board Meting inucr a pncd for 2002 andthe Samay tints wi puted shorty afer approvals the Februny Bead meting, Work is Beng done to posting of tre ich ass comple year of Dan Cano's Carta Calon sd some of the sree heat wrten over ie urs  ‘Apevceal comment: Khas bona plese wering on the ritsince SIA sted Fraction ius” in he ter prt of 200. But Ghat sal god things, wil son cane toa cl x amy tree ler o the Board i coped this un. The March aad Apet ue wil fete last st ferme, sd | Know wl be tno sot ty ‘much the, ay now, thanks fr your sopor thd ngs tae ps yer enjoy ie and ave rod Ran  Rich ( ox ———  ‘Community Service and  Membership Committee ‘Chuck MeL, Chie  MARK YOUR CALENDAR  MARCH 297" That's the date for the  2003 Wine Tasting Event  Information about the event and how to  purchase your ticket will be published in  ‘a special Little Grit. There will also be a stuffer in your Utility bill.  Don’t forget MARK YOUR CALENDAR MARCH 29"  That’s the date!  “All Residents of Sandia Heights arc invited to 4 five week series on Islam beginning. Sunday, February 2 and continuing thru Sunday, March 2 The sessions, open othe public, will take place in the Fellowship Hall of Church of the Good Shepherd, 7834 Tennyson Street NE, on Sunday evenings from 4:00-6:30, including’ a supper Bring something simple to shar, ic. pizza, subs, ste, in environmentally friendly containers and please bring your own table service.  Two PBS videos on “Islam, Empite of Fath” will be shown: a PBS Bill Moyers interview with Huson Smith on Islam; a Barbara Walters interview of Islamic people taped after 9/11 and a speaker from the Islami Center of New Mexico at the las session. Feel free to come o any one of all of the sessions. There is no admission fee.  For more information, you may phone 856-1004 M-F from 9am ~ Noon  More  ‘Computer Problems??  Save time and frustration with on-call, PC in  ‘home computer help. *Disaster Recovery *AOL  “Software Installation *Micronoft Windows,  *Word, “Excel, *Outlook, "Acces etc,, Adobe  & *Macromedia *Custom Web Sites * Training Pall Ham Payne, 28-0961,  Mama dotsolutions.et  Responsible [4 year old {0 do Baby-sitng/ed jobs Eveningwweckends all Sarah 821-326  lassified Ads  Responsible 11 year od todo odd jobs Eveningw weekends Call Cody $21-2326,  "Wanted: Runner who would ike to eam cash ‘while exercising. We havea strong energetic ‘One: yeat-old dog who needs lots of running Call 332-9155 ‘Wanted: Puppy play dae. Ou one-year-old dog  needs another energetic dog for roughhouse and Call 332.9155  FORMER SHHA BOARD MEMBER DIES  The SHHA Board of Directors regrets that William L. Stabler, a long time member of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association jf (SHHA) died this past Thursday, January 23, 2003, afer a long battle with cancer. Bill is particularly recognized for his service on the  1] SHIA Board for over a decade where he held  various positions including President, ACC Chairman and ACC member  Bill's contributions and accomplishments for the SHHA shall always be remembered  Unsigned letter to the editor: FBiors note: in most cases we don't publish tunsigned leer, however tis sabect maters Seemed important]  “To our friends and neighbors on Cedar Hill Road, Cedar Hill Place, Pinon Hill Place, Rock Point Place, Juniper Till Road south of Cedar Hill Road, and others in Sandia Heighs:. Please be ‘considerate of our safety and tranquility and the safety of our property, pets and wildlife. Please ‘obey the law by adhering to the posted speed limit ‘when driving on our block  ‘Some ofthe resldents of  #1414 Juniper Hill Road  ‘BOULDERS WANTED Preferable large oncs!! Ifyou need to remove boulders call Doug Flax  (eGrit  FREE CLASSIFIED ADS FOR MEMBERS AND THEIR CHILDREN To place an ad please call the SHHA oie at 797-7793 or senda text copy ofthe ad ta ‘SHHA@sandiahomeowners.ons,  ‘Submission deadlines for 2003 are 3/14, $9, 7/1, 9/12 and 11/14 Space is limited so fist come fit served.  Lose Weight for the Last Time ‘Boost Energy Book Cravings = Bum Fat Free Sample  sae EAE a “BAC-  ray Terace CM, Abu 1 #722 = Oey eo Sat. we wacom oom BIU, ARDAN 50 om  BAC he, Rex Exare Bacar  a te VAUGHAN CONFUSING OPTIONS? COMPANY REALTORS caters nS ee  vow ome i ‘ Aces.“  Personal Care Services, LUC  Shae  170 Mena Be NE. Sete |, Agus NCD  for latent at servis, ese ot Mtn 568007.  Providing added security to your home and neighborhood.  (Comcast  Comes rin Gremio, ne,  Thomas Smidt Il ‘Tax, Estate & Business Law, NALLC 44217 Montgomery Blvd. NE Albuquerque, NM 87109  830-2200 Fax (505) 890-4400  Your One Call  830-HOME”  For All Your Home Needs  HOME SERVICES  MadeLaee,  ccna . jewelry repairs. oF 104150 184-590 wpa Bnd EA 109  ELITE homes in Sandia Heights. Nola Stofae  bstofac@aok.com www.stofacteam.com  —_The Grit  \d support the SHH.  Pat tance CHS  Rediscover the mountains aboard the Sandia Peak Tramway  Open Daily 856-7325  WIGH FINANCE  RESTAURANT AND TAVERN atthe top ef the Sandia Peak Tramway 2MILES HIGH  40 Tramway Road NE Albuquerque, NM 4712-208 ‘505.243.9742  $  Santiago's Mexican Grill LOCATED AT THE BASE OF THE TRAM ‘40 TRAMWAY ROAD NE ALBUQUERQUE, NM#7122-2018 508.886.6692  2003 Advertising Le  GARDENER'S CALENDER  ‘By Dan Caio  EARLY FEBRUARY February isthe second driest month (ted with ‘Apri, thied coldest and snowiest month (ted with  Apply last application of winterize etic to lawns shes, and tees.  = Fnish up Fall Wimter clean-up chores, pruning ‘nd raking. Perconias are cto the ground, shape treet and shrubs except ery bloomer such is, forsythia. and wists  = Thin and headbck fit tees wp to the end of Febray  = Check watering frequency fortis ine of yea: Deep soak about every 10% 2 days, depending ‘pom plan and emperties  ‘MID-FEBRUARY ‘Start seedlings of cool season vegetables indoors ‘Use a quality seed starter mixes for lettuce, ‘broccoli, brussels sprouts, kohlrabi and cabbage.  = Cut branches of early blooming shrubs/tres, bring, indoor, and place in a vase. In two weeks blooms ‘will appear. Forsytia, winter jasmine, deciduous ‘magnolia, and many fruit and omamental trees ‘work well  = Begin to dormant spray fut tees with lime- ‘sulphur and again in erly March. Plant sweet ea seeds,  + Allergy season bepas fst with one-seed junipers and Siberian elms.  Dont forget your Valentine this year or you may ‘bein lot of trouble!  LATE FEBRUARY = Detbatch and/or aerate cool season Lawns ‘(Kentucky blue grass and fescues) bu hold off on fertilizing wail mid-March.  ~ Check plants (especially coniferous types) for ‘winter aphids. Outer leaves havea shiny reside and the ground beneath look wet.  = What is blooming in February? Wiater jasmine (hab); Crocus (bulb),  EARLY MARCH = March isthe third snowiest (tied with February) and the third windiest month,  Apply second application of dormant spray to fruit weet  + Plant pansies plants now. Tomatoes plans become available. Repot in & larger pot and set indoor by a sunny window.  ID-MaRcHt -- Fertilize cool season lawns (Kentucky blue grass ad faces) with a growth food. If weed were 8 problem fo you lst year, use a fez that enema pre-emerpet  “Pat col sewn vegetables sd anual. you ‘tard then inside by ned, harden the off rao acim them fr he outdone “Prane rose bese Bw up tthe fs Weck in “Apri. Lee climbers untae they bloom. Do nt fod yet “Platoon seta the 15th of March  “is is great time to inal any hardicape items (Gasione boulders ponds, rama, walls gre, x comer projects) in Your new arden that You Planned tat month  “As temperate begin to warm, the watering frequency may need be increased oat Ito 2 tinsawek  LATE MARCH ‘bramble fruits such as raspberries.  = Many cold hardy perenials become avallable at local nurseries.  = Seed, re-seed oF so ool season grasses (Kentucky bluegrass and fescue)  = What is blooming in Mare? Bradford pear, apricots, and purple-leaf plum (tees); Forsythia, rosemary (some), and flowering almond (shrubs); ‘Pasque flower (perenial) Hyacinth and daffodis (bulbs); Saapdragons, primrose, stocks, pansy, and viol (anmoals).  Tanwary -Febroary 2009)  Pesticides in today’s world, [imy'rcn to comol nice Te fom of psa Ie yan Cau  i H i i  Organic Pesticides  from a natural source 1 contol pest. Organics are safer © commonly teered to a Iterated Pest Management (IPM).  ‘we on plants and have a lower toxic risk 10 you the Remember, hil mo single peilde will contol every pes.  applicator. But caution should stil be observed as mary Sometimes there will not be an organic or biological soon  ‘organic cements can be harmful. Organics also have a low for your pest problem and the toe of  syutetlc orgie you  iotne plat t como a varity of iets  ou Fyrethrem ~ Pye ae fund in cuted flowers of "Dost spay om win dn at know mio he icon ise fr te comma of vey of wcking and Sewing he wnt naming om  ry  [Rotenone - Resinous rotenoides derived fom sever 5} Allow enough tne for pci vapors to dispute before leguminos plans This is mary times mined wits pyetvem. Sabadila = Verne alkaloids s the active chemical from 6) Clow windows and tum swamp voles of, ‘ground seeds of a Central American pant used to coat a 7} Spray atthe prope time of day (usally erie in warm ‘vary of insect pests ‘weather and ltr in cooler weather)  ‘ological Pesticides 8) Take a cool shower afer application (twill cove skin ‘A special clas of pesticnte that is living entiy, 10 contol pores) and wash with samp ‘poss. This isa predaorpcy relationship hat exis insature. 5) Sock ial anemiosin the event of «pesticide aiden.  feGa Page #14 Tanvary = February 2003)  EXPERIENCED 17 YEAR BABYSITTER ‘Great with kids ‘Availible alter school snd ca weekends Call 321-0482 nd ak for Becky  11 YEAR OLD GIRL. Available for house sitting and et sing Contact Casa at 855-1283  15 YEAR OLD BOY Available for odd jobs and house siting Contact Patrick at 856-1283  WANTED: Person todo odd jobs “Mast have pick-up truck. Call Doug 858-3406 RESPONSIBL il abst Your chikren Evenings of weekends Call Heather 796-0601  YEAR OLD  EXPERIENCED TUTOR Blementary, Middle & High School ‘Sandia Heights resident. (Current High Schoo! Teacher BS. Regular Fucation,  [Biology and Geology] MA Special Education, [Gites and Learning Disabled) Former instructor at UNM ‘AtCollege of Education References available Contact Lynn 856-6605  The SH c  EXPERIENCED 14 YEAR ‘OLD WORKER Good for doing odd jobs around the house while you ae away. ‘Watering, picking up mail, taking care ofpetsand MUCH MORE, References available | Call 856-1483 and ask for Jordan EXPERIENCED 17 YEAR OLD BABY/MOUSE SITTER Red Cross Child/infant CPR. trained. Very responsible and great with ids of Al Ages. (Own Transportation Available (Call Oivin @ 321-7975  RETIRED HOSPICE NURSE ‘Sandia Heights Resident with super references available for  House Sitting and Pet Care Call A  very good condition ‘Andy or Kathy - 797-4299  lp, {accidentally damaged one ‘pac! ofa double bi-fold door in ‘my Sandia Heights Home. Lam looking for a used replacement ‘panel, if you have one to sel, Call Sandy—797-7197  PET CARE, HOUSE CARE ‘AND BABY-SITTING Sandia Heights resident available to cae for your pet oF house and ‘aby-siting too. Contact Molly at 856-1275 aller 10:00 em  from 11  ev 'nowanoneTy Sics Linea gros suauecuih BOH HIS  iva  pe VW  The Sandia Heights Wildflower Club recently had two  excellent presentations. Ia November, Betty Chovning local artist land Master Gardener, demorotrated how she creates Beautiful  ‘omaments using the wild gourds gown in our area  Betty Chowning  In January, Dan Caudill, owner of Sandia Environmental Design and resident Sandia Heights, presented ¢ very interesting and informative program on signung the Hummingbird Garden. Toe presentation was everything we wanted t0 ‘about hummingbirds and more. We had a very nice tumout for each of these ‘worthwhile programs ‘Our next meeting ad program willbe on Wednesday, March 19, 2003, 7:30 fm. at the home of Peggy and Al Owens 1434 Honeysuckle Drive. Laurie Lange, ai landscape designer, wil present the program, Lite known Native Plants for caping and Enjoyment ote: Ifyou are a member and plan wo being a guest, of are not a member of the ldflower Club and wish to attend, please call Khondch Payne at 797-4306.  fo become a member please send a check for the annual membership fee of $5.00 payable tothe Sandia Heights Wildflower Club to Susan Cook, 1842 ‘Terrace Loop, Albuquerque, NM 87122.  