resident's Report By Bob Francis  The SHIA Board of Directors accomplished many milestones during the past year. They include: Dues crease will hep future funding adequate New By-laws were approved unanimously Participation in the Sandia Pueblo stlement Contribution to Cedar Hill Park of $19,000 will allow development In addition we conductod resident survey ofthe Covenants and the design of the Codae Hill Park ‘We Also attended several sessions ofthe CityCounty Unification Charter Commision. ‘We worked very hard this year to ensure a smooth transition of the duties from the previous SHA officers and committes tothe newly clectad officer, who ae Bob Francs, President Ralph Rodoiph, Vice President (Cheryl Iverson, Treasurer  jew SHIA Board of Directors Elected  Atthe HHA Anmoal mosis SHEA Directors are  on June  , 2003, ive new Board of Directors were elected, ‘The five mew  Kemey Bolton James Erspamer Edward Whiten Ed Cohen Joff Brinker Tmaddition, three SHHA Board members were reelected ‘Bob Francis ‘Mona Lee Schilling Heinz Schait  ations & Publications By Rick Nelson  ‘The three years I have worked on the Grit and other publications and Web Site have been a great pleasure to me, and to tell the truth it has been fu, fun T will miss. A special thanks to all who submitted articles of interest and letters to the editor—Keep it up, ‘your input is vital to a good publication.  Tam pleased to tell you that our Adver- tising income this year from the Grit, Little Grit and Directory was $15,668.10 and this years total cost for publishing them plus the cost for our Web site was $14,581.58, giving Us a surplus of $1,0862.52 this year  Last year cost exceeded income by $1,955.75. Therefore, by raising the cost of advertising in our publications and lowering the cost of production we have reached the goal we set 3 years ago, to make Communi cations and Publications pay for itself by do- ing the work “in-house” with volunteers and staff  Just for your general information prior to SHHA producing the publications “in house” [prior to the 2000-2001 fiscal year} the cost of having the Grit work done out of house cost the association around $8,000 per ‘year more than the income from Grit adver- lising. The same with the Directory before ‘we started doing the work “in-house” it cost ‘over $3,000 per year more than the ineome from Directory advertising,  cost over $3,000 per year more than the in- come from Directory advertising  1 want to thank Melanie Christman and Jim Cook and others for their help and ideas these past three years. What a great accomplishment, going from doing every- thing by contract with an expense of some $11,000 per year to a doing it “in-house” with a surplus of $1,086.52. Gosh, that is a turnaround of $12,000 per year or $1,000 per month, [that amount more than pays the rent on the office.}  Keeping cost below income takes much effort and we will all need to support whoever takes over the job of Communica- tions and Publications in their work to keep operating with a surplus.  From all of us here at SHHA we ‘would like to Thank Rick for all of his hard work.  | NOTICE: The July 9th Board meeting at 7:00 PM  ll feature Ray Padilla who  | will speak on City/County  | Unification efforts.  Jly— Angst 2003 Covenant Support Committee By Frank Soper  During the present term of the SHHA. Board of Directors the CSC has verified 80 Covenant violations and resolved the vast majority of them by direct contact of the violator. Legal action by SHHA has only been necessary in one situation: the violator agreed to compliance upon receipt of one letter from the SHEA attomey. Eight con- struction violations were referred to the ACC and the two committees worked to- gether to correct the problem, A breakdown of the types of violation was presented at the Annual Meeting.  In August the Covenant Review sub- committee, consisting of $ CSC members and 12 very valuable volunteer residents, was formed. This group has made a great deal of progress in our effort to establish a model set of Covenants which will be form, far less controversial and much more resident friendly.  ‘The recent survey conceming some facets of the existing covenants resulted in ‘valuable input from a significant number of residents which the committee will use for guidance as this project proceeds. An inter- esting fact is that we received 14 violation ‘complaints which have never been brought to the attention of the CSC. Also, quite a  Residents wanted the SHHA to increase our speed limits. Bernalillo County establishes speed limits, not the SHHA. Based upon test results conducted over the past two Years, very few of us observe the present speed limits. Increased limits could only re~ sult in many more unsafe conditions.  Results of the survey were also pre- sented at the Annual meeting: they are available at the SHHA office for anyone in- terested  ‘The CSC wants to thank our residents who have cooperated in resolving the issues wwe brought to their attention. Consideration for your neighbors and familiarity with the ‘Covenants is the key to pleasant existence and minimal problems in Sandia Heights.  ‘Communi  Service & Membership Committee By Chuck McLeod  We started off the board this year hoping to increases SHIA Membership through various projects. We worked hard trying to get businesses east of Tramway (businesses located from Tramway Rd. to ‘San Rafael) to offer a discount on food items to SHHA members. We were able to negotiate a firm discount with Sandiago’s and High Finance on a 6 month tril basis, provided our members had an identification card.  ‘The County Line Restaurant would not offer any discount, but they did agree to ative a free shrimp cocktail (3 shrimp) to card carrying members for up to six people in a party. The others, Subway and Pizza Hit, did not offer anything.  ‘We are now working to put together a Late summer event that will appeal both to the young and the young at heart, including, such events as sofiball, volleyball, horse- shoes, cookouts, ete. When we have the necessary planning complete, the member- ship will be notified via The Grit and other media.  Parks & New Development Committee By George Connor  Cedar Hill Park coordination was our major activity this year.  SHHA pledged $19,000 to Bernalillo ‘County in November 2002 to encourage work to start on the park this year. Design started in March 2003 with the first public input meeting. The second public input ‘meeting was held in May to review the pre- liminary park design.  The preliminary park design was also presented at the Annual SHHA board meet- ing on June 7th, We expect the Design and ‘Contract Specification preparation to be fin- ished in carly fall. The BC Parks and Rec. department expects Construction to start in the October timeframe and to be finished around the end of the year  Design work was donated through ‘SHHA by BPLW Inc. (worth about $50,000). BC has $153,000 available for ‘construction (including the $19,000 dona-  tion from SHHA).  This year we also participated in a five year SHHA budget exercise and re- ‘quested $10,000 per year be allocated to Open Space, Parks, and access. This was one of the reasons for the SHHA dues mod- est increase this year  ‘We have been working with BC Parks and Recreation to help eliminated Goat Heads, maintain the equipment, keep the trees that we purchased for the park last year alive, and to keep the park free from trash, and we have posted signs to remind residents with dogs to clean up behind them.  ‘The vacant 10 acres of land at Tram- way and Paseo Del Norte is being watched for any zoning postings and development on this parcel of land. It has been recom- mended to the BC Open Space Advisory Committee that BC purchase this land for Open Space. A recommendation to get an appraisal on this land was in the BC Open Space report to the BC Commission in Feb- ruary.  ‘A few other activities were planned, ‘but put on the back burner because of BC Parks and Rec. department's quick response to the SHHA donation for construction of Cedar Hill Park. One of the guiding princi- ples of the Committee this year has been to not undertake any more activities than can  ‘be accomplished with limited time and the SHHA money available. We believe it is better to do a few things well than to under- take too many and do some or all poorly. We hope that the residents of Sandia Heights agree.  HANDIWORK: 3%  Referral Service ‘Ucensed, Insured Contractors and Hondymen Honest, Accurote Job Prices. Guaranteed Work  Tievunds of teed tonend Pd Call 275-2758  ‘www hrandyskils.com  ign & Consultations Cleanup & Hauling  Dan Caudillo (505) 856-6617  Jeff Spock, CGR General Contractor  (305) 886:5299  Conway WALLCOVERING _  rank Conway Phone; $05-79h2255  003 Advertising  AD_\,  GQ meVauci  JOA COMPANY REALTORS LS eacohen  ‘tonsa sone  WINDOW CLEANING  ‘Curr BRANCH 292-6487  Lucie Mueller  Alouguergue, NM 67122  If you are looking for a contractor and want to find someone your neighbors in Sandia Heights were satisfied with come to the office and check our residents Contractors Evaluation  Book, it may help yo  Church of the Good Shepherd  United Church of Christ.  SANDIA HEIGHTS SERVICES ‘ sen wn sansa. ‘Sandia Peak Utility Company commenty Come jon ws or Worst  ‘Aveqoorgve NM 87122 Inet cin) Soto Sean ‘anon  Office Equipment  ‘Additions ~ Remodels ~ Repairs ~ Replacement  THOMAS SCHIMOLER  The Grit ‘Treasurer's Report By Rick Nelson  AS Tend my third year as your treasurer and ‘my last year on the Board I want to Thank the membership for their support during this period of | major change inthe of operation of you association. For the past 12 months total receipts were $137,297 26 and disbursements were $144,707.93, thus this pas year expenditures exceeded receipts by $7,410 67 this ested from two major items 1. The discovery that SHHA as a non- Profit homeowners association and not ‘A SOI-C type non-profit was obligated to pay Gross Receipts Tax on advertising income. We corrected this oversight for future operations and are now current withthe State having paid ‘55,142.04 forthe past six years unpaid Gross Re- ors Ta, peas nd neret  2. The other major outlay was the donation of  ‘$19,000 to the County towards the construction  ‘os of the Cedar Hill Park. It is estimated the  total cost of land design, and construction ofthe  ‘park will come close to One Million Dollars.  ‘Other than those two items and expense items fll within the expected range and were ialine with previous years. We ended the year with $42,396.50 in Checking and in one CD. Also there  100 in Petty Cash.  For the past tow months Cheryl Iverson, your new Treasurer, has been working doing most of the Treasurer's work to assure an easy transition. | appreciate her effort and know she is going to do an excellent job for the association  ‘SHHA STATEMENT OF CONDITION As of May 31,2003,  ASSETS. ‘Cash and in Bank Checking $10,906.70 © 31,489.80 Pacry Cash 100.00 Toul 4496.50  OTHER ASSETS Office equipmentfumiture 11,498.11 Prepaid Postage 33025 Prepaid Expense 300.00 Prepaid Ret 991.10  1.07815 14,195.21  CASTEFLOW @7i2002 THROUGH 53173003,  INFLOW Advertsing $15,668.10 Fees, ACC reviews 2,490.00 Ineres: Earned 161246 Membership Dues 114,229.61 Wine Tasting 3,003.65 Mise, refunds ec, "263.48 Totallnfiew 137,297.26 ouTFLOw Donations to County $19,000.00 Dues 620.00 Insurance 14,353.68 Commitee Expenses ‘47639 Communication Publication 14,581.85 Legal 221302 Office, including rent 22,368.51 Office Sat? 30,112.05 Officers Expenses 23.16 Meeting Expenses ate7s Sanda Services 12,78220 Taxes, IRS ‘$5803 Taxes, NM Gross Receipts $,142.04 Wine Tasting  Total Outflow $144,707.93  ‘TOTAL INFLOW LESS OUTFLOW [$7,410.67]  MEMBERS CLASSIFIED ADS.  F SHHA Members [Youth first. adults if room  RCPERIENCED 17 YEAR OLD EXPERIENCED 15 YEAR OLD WORKER  BABYSITTER ax = BABYSITTER ‘dag al oh went the be se  Avail er scoala on ‘sect (cal 2-042 ad ‘ak er Becky  cal Jordan 46-485  NYEAROLDGIRL Araie er bow tg  ENCED 17 YEAROLD BABYIHOUSE SITTER  7 ad Crt Caf CP ind rem Ver response and gat with if Al Count Caan 16128 Tes Own Transporation Avie Garomta w2-2975 1S YEAROLD BOY RETIRED HOSPICE NURSE eed ed Sanda agus Rend sp eee ‘ews ane || “phim Sing eae uta Pa 861283 Caaon een t - -——_ | Corin aries [RESPONSIBLE 16 YEAR COMPUTER PRORLEMS=? ca caeceteoe ‘Save tine and fratston wih all, PC in- iktee Eorge rec Nes apes  Cal tea Pap, 2-056  Call Hewier 796-0001 ti Bcc, RESON OLR PET CARE, HOUSE CARE AND BABY |  ‘OLD BOY usec To do dob Send Hg ree ete ace yur pe te Ereningsand worked, jeter bone andtty sting wot Mody Pes i 126 suns ahr 00 Chon enon Treamrer | ———— - > RESPONSIBLE 14 YEAR OLD)  Members Toss tabystng ale NoUSE MESS GETTING YouDOWN? | Keay Baton Ercan an Socket ‘Nesta ae fr waking tg bY? pra tare Gil Sera has meat Dass Dick Brackett Keene: seule Tet Benker *—_—_ < EaCoben BOULDERS WANTED! |p ~ Ie Eee Prelontlaneonat > un Pans Se Tat -Pey Pat chard Frosriaen © Raat Ad STs  © Fe ilo mea) NSF aan  Ed Payne 2) saree Be Seiten Cate ‘Mona Lee Schiling 2 Revmtantsees Heim Schmit a neers se, Jdy Schwery + . Frank Soper i J Wendy Wells YOU CALL. 1HAUL  you nud bp haing 4 Whiten Cal Travis 86-64  [We want to thank all who advertise in the Grit and support the SHH  Thomas Smidt It NALLC  (505) 890-2200 Fax (805) 830-4400  Your One Call  830-HOME~~  For All Your Home Needs  The Stofac Team sells... ELITE homes in Sandia Heights.  379-2500  nnolastofac@aol.com  Pat LonceecRS  @ Prudentia  Soutarest Reaty  Rolfing® t)  ‘Sructural Integration 4  itl CYNTHIA D ORSCH, MS, Certified Rolfer® ” ‘gu poise endl ehoiana dange  505.440.3499  cadrelf@lobo net  OPENING SOON! Amber Skorka, Director  688-8819  LOCATED AT THE BASE OF THE TRAM 40 TRAMWAY ROAD NE ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87122-2018 505 8566492  Architectural Control Committee By Jack Wolfe  ‘The past year (June thru May 2003) has been a very bust and challenging year for the Architectural Control Committee (ACC) as it continued to strive to meet isnt obligations and responsibilities to the San- dia Heights home and property owners in ensuring that all construction, renovation, maintenance and landscaping projects within Sandia Heights were complaint with applicable restrictive covenants.  Over the year, the ACC received and reviewed applications and plans for and ap- proved 144 projects ranging from new home construction, to major remodeling to the demolition of one residence. The largest number of projects fro the year fell withis the “walls/fences” category where a total of 27 applications were approved. This has been the largest number of requests for this category of projects within recent years and appears to be indicative of a trend of which all should be aware, The covenants are in- ‘consistent across all units regarding the placement of structures such as walls and fences, relative to property lines. Some of the covenants state that no “structure” shall be placed closer than 15 feet to the back and side property lines and 45 feet to the front property line. (These setback measure- ments/requirements are not the same in all Units.) Other covenants state that no “building” shall be placed closer than 15 feet to the back and side property lines.  ‘The ACC continued to ensure all pro- ject applications/requests approved by the ‘ACC were in compliance with the cove- ‘nants within each area, This included trying to ensure compliance with the spirit and in- tent of some of the extremely vague coven-  ant restrictions such as those dealing with ‘harmony” and “undue obstruction of views.” The ACC also continued to in- crease the use of “neighborhood” reviews to obtain inputs from neighbors regarding applications and associated plans for new construction as well as major remodeling projects. The purpose and intent of these reviews were detailed in the article that ap- peared in the Grit this past year and which is also posted on the SHHA’s website  Thee ACC also initiated some inter- nal actions this past year as a measure to en- sure consistency and fairness in its decisions relative to the review and approval (or dis- approval) of pending construction and re~ lated projects. Draft guidelines for internal ACC use were developed for evaluating “harmony” as contained in many of the Unit's covenants and also for evaluating the construction and placement of storage sheds. While storage sheds are not specifi cally mentioned in our covenants, there are restrictions in most covenants regarding the ‘number of buildings on a lot and the use of such, And based on the growing number of applications for walls and fences as noted above as wells some issues regarding these applications, an article dealing with walls and fences was prepared for and published in the Grit a few months ago. The intent of this article was to sensitize home and  FREE CLASSIFIED ADS FOR MEMBERS AND THEIR CHILDREN To place an ad please call the SHA office at 797-7793 or send txt copy ofthe ado: HIA@sandiahomeowners.0n, ‘Submission deadlines for 2003 are 3/14, 39, 7/11, 9/12 and 11/14 ‘Space i limited, so frst come first serve.  ‘Selling Sandia Heights ‘Since 1978 & ALong List EMR  ‘SHARON & JUDSON McCOLLUM  are dedicated to providing outstanding cea estate portant person ia the werd. "yOu!  [Nurmbr | in Serve & Sale sine 1979  ‘Nong lit ssid sellers oo carers  Serving Sua igh Sle since 190 CONFUSING OPTIONS?  cote spleen  {505} 292-4858  ACES ‘  Personal Care Services, LLC  2 annie "ott Martin Pon”  Veena aes 50S 8SB-S330'522-0080 tee Po §22.07341-800-727-3697  1707 Mena Bh NES, Apr, NM 7112  Nea Mata. Lng Tem Ce He Hea Cae  for olomatan stot ex sevens, ease el  forty  Providing added security to your  home and neighborhood.  Gomcast  [ The Grit 2003 Advertising  Property owners of this trend so they could ensure their covenants contain the necessary guidelines and restrictions relative to the ‘construction and placement of walls within their Unit  Everyone needs to recognize that ACC's primary guidelines for the approval and disapproval of projects are the cove nants for the applicable Unit, Based on this, ‘we are hopeful that all home and property owners will take an active role in the Board’s ongoing review of and recom- ‘mended revisions to the covenants for all Units within Sandia Heights. You need to bbe aware that any change to the covenants requires the approval of 75% of the property ‘owners within each of the impacted units. ‘And if you want the ACC to make the deci- sions you feel are necessary to protect and enhance the character of your Unit and San- dia Heights, you need to make sure that ‘your covenants contain the necessary guide- lines and restrictions.  ‘The ACC always welcomes home ‘and property owners’ input regarding its ac- tions and decisions. And we also welcome SHHA membership attendance at our regu- lar meetings to become more aware of the efforts of all ACC members. Anyone wish- ing to address the ACC on a specific subject should contact the SHHA office to get on the ACC's meeting agenda.  ‘This past year has been a very pro- ductive year in terms of the number of ap- plications reviewed and approved. We are also confident that the coming year will be more demanding not only in terms of the ‘number of projects, but also in terms of try- ing to ensure such projects are in compli- ‘ance with the spirit and intent of our cove- nants.  ‘Traffic, Safety, & Environment By Mark Boslough  ‘The work “Environment” was added to the name of our committee to reflect the fact that we have been involved with envi- ronmental protection of Sandia Heights. ‘Among this year’s environmental accom- plishments were the production and distri- bution of signs reminding dog walkers to clean up afier their pets, and the prevention of accelerated erosion in the South Do- mingo Baca Arroyo by putting a stop to the removal of fill dit by Sandia Heights Ser- vices.  ‘We remain committed to the safety of ‘our streets, and consider this to be our com- ‘munity because our roads double as side- walks. The fact that our roads are shared by pedestrians, bicyclists, automobiles (and even skaters and skateboarders) requires a speed limit that is lower than many people like to drive. Demographics continue to evolve in Sandia Heights, with more young families moving to our community, and more children that use our narrow winding streets to walk to bus stops.  In an effort to help with traffic safety in neighborhoods like ours, Bernalillo County this year approved the design ofa 15 mph speed hump, and several have al- ready been installed in Sandia Heights. ‘The ‘Traffic, Safety, and Environment Committee has assisted a number of residents in their efforts to have speed humps installed on  Streets. This process involves having the ‘county perform a traffic study to ensure that the street qualifies, and then the residents must have 75% of the homeowners along the street in question sign a petition, To re- quest a trafic survey, resident should con- tact A.L. Mora, a traffic engineer with Ber- nalillo County Public Works. Residents are encouraged to request assistance from our committee.  ‘The Committee also continues to ‘work with the county to trim overgrown vegetation along our roadways. This is a difficult project, because there are so many ‘opinions about how this should be accom- plished, and homeowners tend to be very protective of the strip of land between the roadway and their lots (even though itis ‘owned by the county as part of the right-of- way). According to Bernalillo County Or- dinance Code Section 66-2250, adopted in 1988, it is the homeowner’s responsibility to ‘maintain this setback area and all plantings therein. Nevertheless, the county has worked with the SHHA on a “courtesy mowing project” to keep about 3 feet of the roadside clear of shrubbery and vegetation, but there is a balance between esthetics and safety that is sometimes difficult to achieve.  Finally, the Committee was asked to look into the legal issue of whether the trails ‘up our arroyos (e.g, Pino and South Do- mingo Baca) are legal to use for access from ‘Sandia Heights to the National Forest. We hhave concluded that these trails may or may not be prescriptive easements, depending on how long they have existed and the precise nature of their historical use (New Mexico's prescriptive period is ten years). To deter- mine whether or not they are legal access ‘would require detailed historical research  ‘And is ultimately a matter fora civil court wo deside should a lawsuit be filed for civil trespass (by a landowner) or for a prescriptive easement (by atl user). We hope that owners of parcels tha are ‘rossed by these tals and users ofthe trails, are able solve this issue without going to court. Be- cause we 60 not have complete information on the history ofthese trails, we do not think it would be prudent for our committe or the SHH to take a legal position inthis matter. However, we hope that courtesy and neighboriness preva  —  Meeting for Utilities for SH North ‘Tobe Scheduled  ‘The Bureau of Indian Affairs hha contacted the various parties con coming th “right of way” across the ‘Sandia Pucbl for tho utilities to Sandia rights North ‘The various people contacted | bye BIA inde, he US. Fore | Seevice, Te Tram Company, Sandia Pueblo, and the SHHA. PNM, and ‘Comcast wll be ntified ofthe pending, meeting, ‘a addition to bringing natural | as services and eable service to Sandia Heights North, we want to coordinated the actions of PNM, Comeast nd the ‘Sandia Peak Water Co, Residents of Sandia Heights | Nona were contacted by SHHA to de- termine the amount of imerest in bring- ing natural gas service tothe area. So far approximately 20 residence have Indicated a desir to have natural gas service. A meeting between the esi- dots and PNM willbe scheduled soon. PNM will discuss the cost of bringing ‘natural gas service to the North. Resi- ‘dents of Sandia Heights North should | eallthe SHEA office to indicate thie itorest in natural gas serve.  Lanner  PRESORTED STD. Us. POSTAGE PAID PERMIT #375, ALBUQUERQUE, Nat  Happy 4th of daly 