THE  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  March—Aprit 2003,  NEW BYLAWS Lg APPROVED BY =  =  THE SHHA BOARD  By: Bob Francis, SHIA President  After several months of discussion and de- bate, the SHHA Board of Directors has approved a new set of bylaws for the association. The new by- laws are posted on the SHHA web site for your re view. Or you can pick up a copy at the SHHA office. Members will be asked to vote to ratify the new bylaws atthe annual meeting to be held June 7, 2003,  The annual mecting, which is held the first Saturday in June, will also be the time that m fof the SHHA elect new board members. The 1 nating committee is actively seeking new board members, If you are interested in serving on the SHHA board of directors, contact the staff at the SHHA office.  The annual meeting. agenda will also include 4 discussion of the plans for Cedar Hill Park, and also an update on the proposed unification of the ct Of Albuquerque and Bernalillo County. The unifica- tion of the city and the county could have a major impact on Sandia Heights.  Tim Cummins, the Bernalillo County Cot missioner for this area, will be the guest speaker at the SHHA board meeting on April 9, 2003. Tim will discuss his views on the city/eounty unification  The SHHA board has also been working on the practices and procedures of the SHHA standing committees. Completion of the committee practices and procedures will help ensure a smooth transition ‘as new directors come of to the SHHA board  SANDIA HEIGHTS - THE PEAK OF LIVING  MARK YOUR CALENDAR  SHHA Annual Meeting of Members 10:00 a.m. till Noon June 7, 2003  The purpose of the meeting is 0 elect several members to the Board of Directors, vote to ratify revised bylaws, hear reports from the Board and its standing committees and to con sider other business.  Any new business, which SHHA mem- bers wish to have incorporated into the agenda, ‘must be submited ia writing to the SHHA office by 3:00 p.m, Friday, May 2, 2003,  Prior to being placed on the agenda all submitted tems will be reviewed for legality and appropriateness in keeping with an business  SHHA members will receive a Little Grit in Mid May with a copy of the Agenda and a list cof candidates for the Board of Directors  ‘Voting will be limited to SHELA Members at this meeting, if your not a member join now.  This is your association and community so Mark Your Calendar and attend this impor-  tant meeting  a we  tal meeting  Speed Hump  rad  Facts and Fiction  By: Mark Boslough (Chairman, Traffic & Safety Commitee  1 recently received a call ftom a resident who is opposed t0 speed humps. After a brief conversation, it became clear that his main objection to tmffic calming devices was directly related this opinion that our speed limits are to low, In my view, the role of the Traffic & Safety committee to make our srets as safe as possible for our residents.  ‘The county has implemented speed limits it has determined to be safe for our unique dual-use (Wehicle and pedestrian) streets. We need to abide bby our mutually agreed-upon rules, which balance the conflicting needs for both transportation clfcieney and pedestrian safety. Our low speed limits are a compromise that we accepted when we moved here.  T am open to valid criticism of traffic calming, but I Would like such criticism 10 be ‘sccompanied by an alternative plan to got drivers to slow down. When such a complaint is coupled with an expressed desire to drive faster than our spoed limit, Tam skeptical  ‘With that in mind, 1 present the arguments ‘gainst speed humps, downloaded fom the ‘National Motorists Association (NMA) website.  NMA: Can increase response time for ‘emergency vehicles.  ‘Rebuttal: Tests in Boulder, Colo, showed an average delay of $ seconds per hump, This isthe societal "cost" of the hump. But a full analysis, requires that the cost-to-beneit rato he determined, The most desirable homes in Sandia Heights are those that take the longest to gett, IP residents are willing to add minutes 10 the travel time in exchange for the benefit of desirable location, then $ seconds is a negligible cost for the benefit of added pedestrian safer.  NMA: Can increase congestion,  Rebuttal: When is the last time you got in tafe i Sandia Heights?  NMA: Will increase Vehicle wear and tar, ‘Braking and accelerating increases fuel use  Rebuttal: Modeen speed humps are esigned to minimize forces on vehicles moving the  caugh  speed Limit. I is not necessary to slow down for them, if you are diving the legal spoed  NMA: Impede plowing and street cleaning ‘equipment.  Rebuttal: When is the lst time you saw a snowplow or street sweeper in Sandia Heights?  NMA: May cause physical discomfort for disabled persons.  Rebuttal: Approved speed humps are very smooth when erossed ato below the speed iit.  NMA: Create neighbochood friction. Not ‘everyone in the neighborhood wants them.  Rebuttal: The county requires that 75% of residents must sign a petition to get speed humps on ‘2 sreet. This is a supermajority to the extreme. Most decisions in our democratic society only need a simple majority of greater than S0%, ‘The price of, democracy is not always getting your way.  Additional arguments against tac calming are bared on anecdotal stories of bizarre accidents involving speed humps. One freak accident resulted in a fatality. But similar stories fan be found for accidents involving other safety Features, such as fire hydrants.  "The societal cost of speed humps include a S-second delay for emergency vehicles, and (ike fire hydrants) the tiny possibility of an accident. But (like fire hydrants) the societal benefits are  A Letter to the Editor: Ec  T would like t thank you, Mr. Boslough, and the SHH safety commiiee for “Fixing” the speed bumps on north Tramway Lane, The addition of new speed bumps near the ice arena elfetively addresses a long time concern for those living in that area, Before the new additions, atic used to get a “free pass” for the last section ofthat road which made it very dangerous for those of us ho drive, walk, ide, and run in tht neighborhood. Traffic often traveled dangerously at specds two 10 thre times the set limit in that section. Thank you for continuing to make a positive difference in our ‘community, and for addressing the safery needs of ‘our chien,  Kudos to your committee, and Keep up the 00d work!  Sincerely,  Derron Sanchez  een  Page #2  March-Apal 200  Architectural Review: By: Jack Wolfe, ACC Chair  Architectural review is a process mandated Within the restrictive covenants of all residential ropictics within Sandia Heights. Iti a process tat eqs the review of al plan forthe constection of few andthe remodeingenovation of existing structures on all residential Hes, 28 well a8 planoed changes in the landscape of such lot, to ensure planned actions and the resus thereof will bein ‘compliance withthe applicable restrictive covenants. tis this architectural review proces as well as home and property owners’ compliance therewith that is largely ceded with the preservation of the unique character of, as well as the preservation and fechancement” of propery values within, Sandia Heights  ‘AS noted above, the restrictive covenants are 1 part of the property dood of each residential lot within Sandia’ Heights. AS such, propery. and homeowners are responsible fr being flly aware of and compliance with the particulars of their covenants and apeifically thobe actions for whieh achitectral review and approval must be obtained ‘or to he inition of any exteral work. Equally Important is an awarcess of specific restrictions within the covenants such a front and side setback requirements (distance mandated between the property lines and any stuctar 1 be placed on the Proper) prior to begining work on aay designs oF formal plans.  Please note that the Architectural review proces is mandated not by the SHHA, but by the ‘covenants in the deed of each property. This has Several significant implictoes. Pst, all home and Property owners, reparless of membership in the SHHA, should and do expect the process to be applied to al planned construction and related actions {0 include the resus thereof to ensure such are compliant with the specifies widin the applicable ovens Secondly, all home and property owners, whether or not they are SHHA members, are ‘responsible for complying with the process and the decisions resulting there om. Thirdly, conduct of  ‘Community Service and  Membership Committee ‘Chuck MeLcod, Chae  ‘These past two months the committee has worked to organize the annual Wine tasting event on March 299,  From the numberof tickets sold we expect a {0d tout. Ifyou receive this Grit prio to the 29" and still need to purchase a ticket you ean still obtain fone at the SHHA office or call our treasurer Rick Nelson 856-7139 and he will arrange 10 sell you & ticket  Otter activity has included making the preliminary arrangements for our annual meeting of ‘members this coming June.  ‘We urge all residents of Sandia Heights who ae not members of SHHA to call the SHHA office aad join the association and to join with your scighbors i their efforts to maintain and improve {his wonderful community  (DeeGri  Pages  Macig 20  . ACC Summary Report  For the Period Jan — Mar 2003 ‘By: Jack Wolfe, ACC Chair  During the period Jan 1 thru Mar 19, 2003, the ACC received and reviewed 18 applications submitted to it for ‘approval. These applications were submitied by home & ‘property owners in compliance with the Restictive ‘Covenants that are included in the deeds of all properties within Sandia Heights, The ACC's review process is to ‘ensure tht actions set fort in each application and associated plans are in compliance withthe applicable covenants. It's {portant to nate that this ACC review and approval process is mandated within the covenants and thus a mandated ‘commitment to all Sandia Heights property owners  ‘The following is a summary of those applications reviewed by the ACC including those that were approved and ‘those for which approval remained pending as of Mar 19. As was initited in the last Grit, this summary reflec the property address and the major action detailed in the application.  Applications Approved:  338 White Oaks Addition  735 Tramws ‘Garage Adition 945 Deer Addition 1123Marigold Drive Addition  140 Big Hor Ridge Deck Replace 1416 San Rafael Adlon  1418 San Rafael Ct Wall 176Big Hor Ridge Pool & Fence 37 Cedar Hill Place Pool  434 Live Oak Loop Wall/Sunroom $62 Black Bear Road Addition 8234 Raintree Landscaping 1467 Morning Glory New Home  932 Tramway Lane  Applications Pending:  163 Juniper Hill "Addition  1907 Quail Run Drive Fence  760 Traawway Lane #8 Porch Cover 2136 Coyote Willow Paint garage door  “Something there i that doesn’t love a wal Before | built a wall I'd ask to know ‘What | was walling in, or walling out, And to whom I was like w give offense” Robert Frost: MENDING WALL  ‘There is much that i distinctive about Sandia Heights. One of the best pans, in my mind, is the sense of open space, of our natural environment ‘Comparing us to other neighborhoods best experiences that Ia High Desert for example, there are walls around the properties. High wall. To find moch open space there, you have to look for arroyes. Or the homes with an acre of property, but often even those Ihave walls, sometimes, high walls,  We're different. It was consciously planned this way, some thiny years ago. Most of Sandia Heights’ covenants sapport very limited use of wall Walls are meant to accentuate an entrance, wall in & ‘small area of a backyard, provide small play area for children, enhance a patio area, but not 1 all in an ‘entire property, not to wall inthe open space to the esriment of all to enjoy. And walls are limited in bight to n0 more than 6 fect.  Technology has helped those of us with dogs fa Sandia Heights. The new elzctroic fencing means that we can keep poochic happy with some wide open roaming areas and all without visible fences. Our reeighbors can still enjoy seeing our natural ‘environment, even if it occasionally means sccing og sitting. atop a boulder surveying her kingdom,  People new to Sandia Heights may bring a itferent mentality tothe question of walls, particularly if they ae moving here from other parts of ‘Albuquerque, the cinderblock fence capital of the ‘world. I's’ important to remember to check your particular covenants for your unit. And, if you want to ‘add a wall, you must apply through the Architectural ‘Control Commitee for a permit. That Commitee eps in mind that your requested 6 foot wall aka fence) may appear much higher when completed if you happen to be on a hill, and thus more open space is Tost to View for al  So the overall reminder is — keep Sandia ‘Heights open with as much of the natural environment, the wandering herds of deer, and the wonderful lowers cof all seasons evident forall our inhabitants..because walls do mot good neighbors make...and we just don’t have to keep the cows in anymore.  [The Grit  Page  March-April 2003)  FREE CLASSIFIED ADS FOR MEMBERS AND THEIR CHILDREN To place an ad pleas cll the SHIA office at 797-7798 ot send a text copy ofthe ad te: SHHA@sandinbomeownens.ore ‘Submission deadlines foe 2003 are 3/14, 59, 7/11 9/12 and 11/14  pace i limite. 0 fist come fit served  Lose Weight for the Last Time Boos! Energy = Block Cravings ~ Burn Fat Free Sample ELLEN PFEIL Herbale independent Dsttxtor 2402 Tramway Terace CL NE, Abuguerges, NM 87122  1288 000-3241. www adecove com 805 620-2900  awe VAUGHAN  COMPANY REALTORS Gig Halt  ered  (omcast  Canes xine Carman, {61 hte Pe ME ‘ayer, 18710  CONFUSING OPTIONS? (attr el enn =e epee  <a [50s] 292-4888 ) ACES ern Car Sr LLC  Providing added security to your home and neighborhood.  (Gan, EES  Thomas Smidt Il Tax, Estate & Business Law, NA.LLC 4217 Montgomery Big. NE ‘Abuguorque, NMI 87109  ( 505) 830-2200 Fax (505) 890-4400  Your One Call  830-HOME“”  For All Your Home Needs Feelin. HOME SERVICES  en mereoeuna: Nate Zary  @ Prudential ote  Rediscover the  ‘mountains aboard the Sandia Peak Tramway  Open Daily 856-7325  The Stofac Team sells. ELITE homes in Sandia Heights.  Brian Stofac 379-2500 nolastofac(aaol.com Trtofac’eaol com ‘www stolacteam.com Re/Max Hite 798-1000  The Grit  a =  RESTAURANT AND TAVERN a he top ofthe Sandia Peak Tramway 2 MILES HIGH.  40 Tramway Road NE Ahaquergue, NM 8722-208 505.243.9742  ‘i  ‘Santiago's Mexican Grill LOCATED AT THE BAS!  3003 Advertising SHHA Bylaws Revision - ‘By Ralph Rudolph  (ur Bylaws have been under revision for the beter part ofthe year in an attempt to improve how SHHA operates. The revised Bylaws were approved at the March 12" Board of Digectors “Meeting. The approved Bylaws are now posted on ‘our website and also will be available in paper fom atthe office. The Bylaws must be ratified by the membership and will be voted upon at our June ‘Annual Membership Mecting. The proposed Bylaws will be voted on “as is" and no changes will be allowed from the floor. Please send any suggestions you would ike the Bylaes Committee to consider io them by April  ‘The major changes inclode (referring to new Bylaws sections):  Section 1: Membership in the SHA is limited to those owning homes or property within Sandia Heights (SE). Membership tiles one household to one vote only on SHIA level maters regardless of the mumber of properties owned ‘within SH by that household. There is only 1 class ‘of membership (active). Dues changes require 60 days notice to members.  Section 3: Responsibilities of Directors are <efined in more detail. Improved documentation is established. Nominating Commitee procedures ae iamproved, and petition candidates are allowed. New Officers tre pre-lected in Apri, not following the ‘Annual’ Meeting. i June, 10 improve cootinuiy. Proxy voting i permited with exact specifications. Meeting. agendas are required. Replacement. of resigned removed Director is coified. No Officer may serve as a Commitee head (except Finance).  Section 5: Standing Committees with limited power to act for the full Board are ‘tablished 10 streamline efficiency, but ae ‘budgetary limited. Directors are allowed to serve ‘on up to 3 commitees. Standing Committees are ‘required 10 ave Board-approved charters and ‘0 report at cach meeting. The Executive Committe is expanded to include the heads ofthe Architectural Control Commiize and the Coveaant Support  Commitee. The Feance Comite is required to develop an easual SHIA budget and to submit Sch for Board approval  ‘Namerous ther minor changes have been rade as well, all med to improve the Board's ‘ficiency, responsibilty and procedures.  ‘We hope you will check these approved yl tht ae pod on our website and available in paper form at the office, Please send any comments 10 one of the Bylaws Commitee members: Jake Chavez, Ralph Rodolpt (chai), rank Soper, Jak Wolfe, of President Bob Francs.  Communications and  Publications Committee Rick Nelson, Chair  een busy since te last Grit, hee is what has ben going on  “The Grit; We ar gatefl for all of the tcl en ers sbi for this Gri it makes the Gri bigger and beter o hve this np. Some times we ete more than we can iclose ad we rege when this happens. ‘The May-June Grit will not be md ei er the Anal Meeting of ‘Members on June 7*. By doing this we can let you snow what happened athe meting  “The Directory A ei the printers and sho be in member's maxes the ft park ot Api  “The Resients Guide: Guess what, we change plans, the Resides Onide willbe ieladed inthe Directory again this ear.  ‘The Web Site: Hope you have fund time to check ot wat going on with the Web Sit, think you will nd more up to date, and with much more useful information, If there is anything ou woul Ike seen the Site pene let ws ow.  ete: When you subi something forthe ‘ri please limi to page ad if possible subi iin Time New Roman fot sie 11  [fie Gat  Page #7  ‘March-Apeil_2003)  Treasurers Report ‘Rick Neon, Treasure  = 2003 RECIEVED ace $280.00 Interest 125.00 Members Dues 197821  ‘Total Received __suz.sni.71 DISBURSED  ‘Committee Exoense acc 2000 ‘Communications 1.70829 ‘Community Service, Stuffers, te wine Taste "388.06, Trafic ad Safety, poop signe 28 ‘Insane Umbeela sss ‘Legal parti oxoments  Relations 1ar08 “ax Advice, in fll ‘sass Offic exoense Computer Lease 105.22 Comvast laters Service $800 Copies forall Commies, but not Get en Mileage Lisa 34s Mise 154867 Ofice Lease 9155s Posage 1500 Postage Meter eta m2 Seca 1139 Telephone 16554 Office Sat 2780385  ‘Sandia Service Colston of Dacs_1 06275 ‘TofaL Disbursed __19.47 8 ‘Received ies Disbarncd__S 1.93583  ‘Cash and in Bankes Petty Cah  ‘Other Assets ia cont Computers & Software ‘Da from Adveraing Solé Office Accesses  Ofie Feritre  Prepaid Postage  Prepaid Expense  Prepaid Rent  Security Deposits  Wine Taxing lavemtory  egal Reserve 20,000.00 Prep Aaverssing 1336280 egal bill due in March and Apel  sccucd in defense of wit agaist SHIA 1,905.88 Reserve for Grose Receipts Tax 101001 ‘Total Lisbiiées __saua7a.a  ‘Note Members dues for March mal Ape wil provide sufficient fund to pay curen expenses and te {Veal Bil that have accred over several sons duet negotiations with our insurance carie. these negations ‘enulted i a agreement favorable wo SHIA) Therefore, 1 ‘dont fel we wil have to withdraw funds from our CD  ‘We should all be like this—— ‘Seat in by Frank Soper > “ifyouean start the day without casing or pep il, > Tryou cam be cheerful. ignoring aces ant  sins  > Th you can resis complaining and boring ‘people with your woubles,  > Teyou ean eat the sme ood everyday ad be grt fori,  > Hf yutcan understand when loved ones ae 100 buy to give you tine,  > Wyoucan overlook when people tke things ‘ut en you hea throagh no fault of yours,  someding ges rome.  [iyo can tke etiam and blame witout  reoentent.  you can fae the world without is and  deve.  1 you can conquer tension without medical  ei,  {fy can lax wthow gue,  Sou can sleep without head of drugs  you can do al these things, then you are probly  the family dog.  yeovy  (fheGrit  0 Marci Apa 3009  MEMBERS CLASSIFIED ADS  ve rexrnuirscey ives |" gxppsueycep isyEaR | Sigman | Paneer oy ot tocmrcint || Soe cgste Sec | sEtepinaae Se | Sonar |  References availabe | ~ “4 (Call 856-1483 and sik for Jordan  ‘Available for howse-siting ‘EXPERIENCED 17 YEAR OLD | “~ anv a cee Cie Fase | fetes oe | > with kids of All Ages. | tsveatouvnoy | ome te aoalttttaipieatiee | “Cuore ate Soces a _ Patrick at 856-1283, id __faree eee Peru wosnce nse Sage oan MEGONSIDLE YEAR OLD || sapere Tiyatanlne ke Tucan coe aac a Evenings or weekends i “tl Call Heather 796-0601 i} ~ i soca ia RESPONSIBLE 1LYEAROLD | Sesi!'knsome coop eee | cy Evening Care rere sane |  Call Cody 821-2326  derwemcz mee Y——  too Babysitingod be Help acidetlly damaged one ‘and of double B-ftd door a ty Sandia Heights Home. Tam | ———.) | Tooking fora wed replacement | | BOULDERS WANTED panel ifyou have one to sell Preferable large est! || Call Sandy 797-7199 Call Doug 858-3405 |  Gaetan 312326  4 exeenrencen ruron mecane *) EXPERIENCED TUTOR PET CARE, HOUSE CARE  emery MivdetHighsshoot | ANDBABYSSITTING | Saul Highs ride, sod ag rade mei Comet High Schl Teather 1 car for your pet row and  Teleenccscvalie | bystingion.Contct Moly at |  856-1275 afer 10:00am  ‘March-Apeil_200:  SHHA BOARD REPRESENTATION By: Jack Wolfe, Chair Nominating Committee  Will your interests and concems as a ‘homeowner and property owner in Sandia Heights be represented on the SHIHA's Board of Directors (Board) in the fortheoming year? If the past is any indication ‘of the future, the answer to this question is “probably not” Recent years have shown that appropriate ‘representation on the Board is far too imporsnt to be left to chance. Equally important, any measure to preclude this matier from being left wo chance rests Primarily with each snd every home and property ‘owner within Sandia Heights.  Many years ago our community was divided into 12 geographical Districts forthe purpose of trying to ensure that the 37 geographical Units, each with their own set of restrictive covenants’ and other differences, were represented on the SHHA Board, The intent thea, as now, isto ensure thatthe particular interests, concerns, and etc, within each District (and. the encompassed Units)" were recognized and ‘considered in all actions by the Board. A listing of the Districts and the specific Units encompassed within cach is noted  In the past, the major criteria for being elected to the Board was 2 willingness to run for one of the ‘vacant positions. This very often led to existing Board ‘members appealing to friends, neighbors and associates to run for the Board as a measure to ensure vacancies ‘would be filled. And most often, ater considerable time and effor by the Board's Nominsting Commitee along with other Board members, the number of willing candidates often ended up equaling only the ‘number of vacancies. The good news was that there ‘were sufficient candidates to fill the existing vacancies ‘each year. The bad news was that even through ‘concerted efforts by the Board and its Nominating ‘Committee to “recruit” candidates from Districts not represented on the Board, the composition ofthe new Board cach year reflected anywhere between two {0 five Districts without representation. This curent year (2002-2003) hasbeen’ no exception as there are currently four Distrits without representation on the Board,  ‘From all indications, this imbalance in District representation on the Hoard has nat severely impacted the Board's overall performance and its efforts to fatly represent the interests and concerns of all home and property owners. Of course, this opinion comes in the absence of a voice (representation) from all Districts. ‘On the other hand, it must be noted that there have aso been an increasing number of situations where it appears thatthe lack of representation on the Board fiom all 12 Districts has been to the detriment ofthe  performance and more importantly, 10 the  Thave been heard by the Board and it has and will  to do its best to address and resolve these ‘concems. However, there is no substitute for having. ‘one of two represenatives from one's own District on the Board to ensure unresolved issues remain on the Board's agenda until solutions are identified and  Board planned special actions that will begin within the next few months and will continue through the next 12 to 24 months. These actions will necessitate input ‘rom all 12 Districts, as well as foe all Unis within each of these Districts. Some of these actions include coordination and refinement of the Board's proposed revisions of the various sets of Restrictive Covenants to enhance uniformity, to resolve vague restrictions that are nearly unenforceable and to add clarity where possible. The focus and intent of this effort is to ‘and incorporate to the maximum extent possible the 37 diferent sets of Restrictive Covenants {nto one set of basic covenants that is common and applicable across all of our community with perhaps supplemental covenants applicable to particular Units based on past acceptable standards and practices. Since any change to a set of covenants requires approval by 75% of the “property owners" within the Unit there is « need for atleast one Unit Coordinator to be working with the property owners within each unit and also with the appropriate | Disrct representative Board Director. Neadless to say, the lack of a District representativeyBoard_ Director complicates this entire provess not only for the Board, ‘but also for concerned home and property owners, ‘Other projected actions requiring District and Unit  ffhe Grit  Fas ti0 MarchApet 3009  'SHHA Board Representation - Continued  representation and coordination include, but are not Timited to, defining and. formalizing criteria and supporting process to be employed in evaluating and determining, what is and is not in “harmony,” what constitutes “undue blockage of views,” and resolving other geographical type ister that the membership may bring before the Board thoughout the yea. Each and every home and property. owner within Sandia Heights should and needs to make sure that his of her District is represented on the Board for some degree of assurance that particular issues within ‘thei District (and Unit) will be brought before and adeessed by the Board. And every home and property ‘owner needs to make every effort posible to ensure thatthe Board represents and speaks forthe owners in all the Districts within our community. And, the fist fective step in this overall proces is ensuring that your District has a representative oa the Board or has 1 fr teen cada otis yew’ ema The Districts (and encompassed Units) from which representation is needed and the mmber of representatives desired for the coming year ae noted below. These are the Districts ffom which candidates {foe the Board are needed in preparation for the election tthe Annual Membership Meeting on June 7, 2003.  District -“Encompassed Units Reps Desired  Sandia 0,1,2.&3 (North) 2 Live Oak 3.84 (South) 2 Road Runner 5 & 6 (South) 2 Cedar 7 (South) (partial) 1 Quail 16,19, 20 (South) 2  1 goes without saying that anyone interested in filing a Board position and not from one of the Districts noted above, i strongly encouraged to submit. their resume. We know from the past and even through concerted efforts by the Board, there is always shortage of candidates for existing vacancies.  ‘Questions regarding becoming a candidate for the Board should be directed to the SHHA office at 97-7183.  Gre kaitrial Policy i:  Letter to the Editor ‘From: Tom and Vicki Smid, 16 Juniper Hill Rd,  ‘This isin response tothe unsigned letter tothe editor of the most recent Grit from “Some of the residents of #114 Juniper Hill Road”,  ‘Tom has been a resident at 16 Juniper Road since May of 1976 (nearly 27 years) and Vick for 12, We ae aware ofthe recent change Inthe speed limit from 25 miles per hour to 15 miles per hour on this part of Juniper Hill Road. We are also aware of the frequent presence of a sheriff's department deputy in our neighborhood to enforce the new speed limit.  ‘All of us in Sandia  speed limit by those traveling ata high rate of speed (Come of whom live in our immediate rea). We believe thatthe speed limit should be increased back to 25 miles per hour, and those traveling at 30 of above be ticketed, as they should, We have noticed that in obeying the new speed limit we ae often “ailgated” by other drivers, crating a new hazard  ‘Also, we do not believe thatthe Grit should vay from its poliy of wot publishing unsigned leters, ‘po maticrs how “important” they may seem. It detracts fiom a constructive dialogue when people are ‘lingo pb sad behind i pokions  ‘Atego print oh sides of every nme, including comstrctive rican fot abuse o ising remarks “  > Reserve the ight to Fat any etic o article submited, > Not woprint any unsigned leerse articles fect Page Mareh-Apet_ 2003)  Sandia Heights History  ‘As printed in the Sandia Heights Residents Gide  Sandia Heights is a unique residential evelopment covering 1,600 acres inthe foothills of the Sandia Mountains. The community was started in 1965 and was developed by the Sandia Peak ‘Tram Company under the guidance of Robert Nordhaus, the late Ben Abruzzo, and Bob Murphy, ‘the current chairman and CEO. The land was ‘purchased “piccemeal” over long period of time,  versions of the Declarations of Restrictions controfting the Sandia Heights area.  ‘The community has & colocful history highlighting a respect for individuality and a ‘commitment to the preservation of the willie and seg versa Tae mcs 2108 residences, with a population of 57300. Sanda Height i divided into 36 residential sblivisions (units). At full build out, iis projected that Sandia Heighis will have some 2400 residences and a. population of about 6,000,  The SHHA began in 1972 with a small ‘group of residents who were interested in Preserving the unique character and quality of life ‘of the area. The Association was offically Incorporated asa non-profit New Mexico ‘corporation ia. 1975  lis mission is to coordinate planning and limplement the management. of services and activities necessary or desirable in promating the ‘common interests and welfare of the homeowners, property owners and residents located in the Sandia Heights Development of the County of Bernalillo, New Mexico. The history of the Assocation is inextricably entwined with growth and development of the Tram Company and its subsidiary companies including Sandia Peak Utility Company and Sendis Properties Lid. The Sandia Heights Security Patrol td the Four Seasons Club are for-profit ventures of the Tram Company, For a number of years the  major stockholders and operating officers, who ‘were also founders und residents of Sandia Heights, were key members on the Association Board of Directors. Sandia Heights was a close-knit community far removed from the city limits and ‘without many of the services that ity dwellers took for granted, such as mail delivery, snow removal, paved roads and road maintenance. As the community grew and developed, Sandia Properties met many of these needs, going well beyond services generally provided by a real estate develope.  By 1985 the SHHA had achieved a certain degre of independence and took on more of the financial responsibility for functions previously provided by the Tram Company, including. ‘covenant monitoring and enforcement and ‘coordinating with city, county and _ state ‘governmental agencies on matters impacting Sandia Heights such as zoning. utilities, roadways ete. To help provide funds for these services, in 1986, the ‘Tram Company agreed to include billing for Association dues in the regular water bills from Sandia Peak Utility Company. This consolidated billing resulted in significant increases in the SHFLA’s available funds and continues today inthe SHHA contractual agreement with Sandia Properties Lid. Since then other service functions formerly provided by the Tram Company — snow ‘removal and maintenance of roads and signs — have ‘been tured over to Bemalillo County.  Be a Good Neighbor: ‘eas taken from the City of Atbuguerque  News  ‘Neighborhood by Rick Nelson,  Are your neighbor’ barking dogs driving you crazy? Are there dogs in your neighborhood that ccm to bark at everyone and everything? Many  ‘the probe continues you may dc to file comping, bu remember to communicate With our neighbor fr. This may help you to be 2 “Good Neighbor" For more information call Bemalilo County Animal Care and Regulation a 873-8706.  {fhe Gat  Page #12  MiacApail 2009  Remodeling? Save Your Stuff,  Spring is remodeling and “clean out the garage” season. If those tasks are oo your “honey-do” lst, Greater Albugeerque Habitat for Humanity (GAHH) can make your job just a litle easier. We have a place for building ‘materials which re reusable, and we'll even pick them up.  GAH is opening ReStor, a thrift store open to the general public, which sells donated new and used building materials a greatly redoced prices. The proceeds help build more Habitat homes for qualified Albuquerque residents  eStore wil open ia May o early June at 204 San Mateo SE, just south of Central across from Wal-Mart, on the east side ofthe building. This is the old Rainbow Roller Rink. Our iavertory includes doors, windows, sinks, cabinets, appliances, electrical goods, lighting. Jumber—you get the idea.” We also have some maple ‘looring from the roller rink i you'd lke some nostalgia in your home. A list ofthe types of donations we are seeking, and will be selling, is located on our website at wow habitat ony  Get a Life for your stufl Amange 2 donation pickup by calling Habitat at 265-0087. For futher Information oF to volunteer to help with ReStore, cll Ruth Friesen, ReStore Director, at 856-1593,  ATTENTION, RESIDENTS: OF SANDIA HEIGHTS By: Windy Wells .  Atte end of Apel, the Covenant Planing Commitee is sending outa short questionnaire to all the home owners in ‘Sandia Heighs. The purpose ofthe survey i to obtain Your views on the current set of covenants that exist within your luni Do you like them? Do you think they should be tmodificd, updated or kept the same? This is 2 great ‘opportunity to let your views be known. Your input i critical! Please take the time to fill ost the questionnaire and ret it to the SHHA in the envelope provided or drop itby the office. Thank you  CEDAR HILL PARK KICKOFF  HELD in MARCH  By: George Connor (Over 50 residents of Sandia Heights and nearby areas ‘gather inthe local Police Substation on March 10, 2003 to ‘Provide input to the design ofa new park at the internet ‘of Tramway Blvd. and Cedar Hill Road. Berallio County Parks and Recreation Department personel conducted the ‘meeting and asked all in attendance to provide ideas about what they would like to see in the park and surrounding ‘open space (total 3.7 acres). Is expected that sppcoximately 13 of the area wil bea formal Park and the remaining 2/3s will be left as Open Space. Some limited packing. probably along Cedar Hill Road, willbe = consideredplanned. Following are more details about schedule and funding:  ‘© Schade Design hens hia month, Mach  2003, Expect Design and  ‘Coote’ Speciation preparation to be  faked in mont 180 days Contact wil hen  ‘placed taking anther 5 days Beralio  ‘County expects Construction ost inthe  Gcoherimetrme  © Ste Cows ~ Design woth, by BPLW In, has  een dona throug SHILA (weeth about  $50,000) Cou bas $153,00 availabe for  ‘consrucion (including «$19,000 donation  ftom STA)  (keea—  Page #13  Teac  ‘The City With too Many Qs By: Kevin Fleming  Acbg-?” No, no, Ackbungu-er qe!” was the marathon spelling lesson my mother routinely gave tw her relatives in Dayton Ohio, They wanted to send = present te her for giving bieth t9 me back in 1955 But this remote city. ina “foreign county” seemed impossible for any mail carrier to find. “How moch twouble will it be w get Kevin an American citizenship” was one of the more frequent questions asked. The other common question was “What does the word ‘Albuquerque mean in English?” One of the more snide replies was “It means city with too many Qs” My parents met here in the 50's. My Dad had a basketball Scholarship from Northwestern University in his hometown of Chicago, and when he completed college, bbe went into the Army and played basketball forthe team stationed at Albuquerque's Kirtland Air Force Base. My Mom moved here with her parents and worked at Sandia Corporation. Things were quite ifferent then. Although the city had a population around 100,000 there was lite sprawl like we are seeing ‘now. After my Dad finished his stint inthe military, he ‘taught at Bast San Jose School, thea got a job as an insurance agent. He wanted to have his own office and land but had limited savings (As usual, teachers didn’t feet paid much even back then). He took a chance and built his office on a litle dirt road called Eubank. His ‘manager was not happy about his “poor choice of location”, citing that nobody will want to drive down a <irt road at the end of town to get insurance. But that was his decision, and he borrowed part of the $10,000 it took to buy the land und build the office (He retired after 42 years atthe same location).  ‘Growing up in Albuquerque, we didn’t have all the video games that overflow the toy stores now. A “playstation” to us was a pretend gas station we would build out of cardboard boxes. We had four channels ',5,713, and guess what kids, we had to actually get ‘up out of the chair to change the channel! Uncle Roy and Captain Billy were our local heroes until we saw on the news that Captain Billy was shot while “spending time” with another man's wife (a litle ute of reality). We were exposed to the Indian and Spanish lifestyles, which I believe enriched our lives by seeing and ‘experiencing cultures unlike our own. My wife, who also was bom here, lived next door to a Spanish family ‘who always had a pot of beans, chile, and tortillas tthe ready for any unannounced guests. Close-Anit neighbors ‘were more commonplace then.  In our teens, we raced gorkarts at TTT Kartway ‘oa Nine Mile Hill, west of Coors, which isan extension  those God-forsaken sand dunes. There wasot anything ‘out there but sand, sagebrush and rattlesnakes. Later, a ‘company called Am-Rep bought hundreds of thousands fof acres (for about 67 cents an acre) and started to  ‘On the East Side of Albuquerque, there was an ‘odd development stating to take shape. Some Sweirdoes” started 10 build houses in amongst the ‘woes and cactus in the foothills of the Sandia  these  if  i  High Desert was touted to be the “environmentally ftiendly” subdivision that would minimize the impact onthe area. ‘Sandia Heights about to become the #2 ranking for desirable foothills subdivisions? I was hopeful High Desert would be kind tothe land, but the frst month of ‘excavation proved (in my mind) to be devastating. The huge bulldorers uprooted 100-year-old. Osage Orange ‘wees that are very rare in this area (Osage Orange is named after the Osage Indians who used the strong, ‘canary-yellow wood for making bows.) Well, in my ‘mind, Sandia Heights is stil an easy #1 for maintaining struralike feel that we hope wil remain that way. Yep, ‘Albuquerque is a prety good place to live and I have loss of memories to tie me to this place. Some ofthe ‘new people who move in seem to have complaints about the city; Too big. no place to get a Chicago Dog, chile’s 10 hot (wimps), too easy to get a sunburn. But afer spending a couple of years here, they usually dismiss ‘any notions of moving back 0 their former state. ‘Albuquerque still has an enchantment about it that rings people into stay and I feet lucky to share this rea, with all of you, in the best part ofthe city, Sandia Heights!  Grit  on ‘March Apel_ 2007 Referral Service + cansed, Insured Contractors and Hondymen + Honest, Accurate Job Prices. Guaranteed Work  Thovsonds of Stished Customers! a a Call 275-2758 Ran seem  at VAGORAN COMMON REA ‘wwrw handyskils.com j, Ruan,  HANDIWORK: 3%  Ww ‘Sandia Environmental Desig: Men  CLEANING Landscape Design & Consultations re Bo Cleanup & Hauling CURT BRANCH 292-6487 Dan Caudillo (505) 856-6617 arse 0  Jeff Speck, COR ($08) 486-5995 General Contractor 4. / Far 856-5306  JADE Enterprises, Inc. Design & Construction  REALTY@INC  Lucie Mueller etme (ASV ASE IID 22.080 jee Dawe. os ‘Atbaserqun, NM #7122  The Weg Gy Re 35) 797-1018, conaintens mpeg EMail: locisdacorat et  Ifyou are looking for a contractor and want to  find someone your neighbors in Sandia Heights were satisfied with ‘come to the office and check our residents Contractors Evaluation Book, it may help you.  Church of the Good Shepherd United Church of Christ  BIE SANDIA HEIGHTS SERVICES ‘Sandia Peak Utlity Company  Aesquorgue NM 87122 nat jaronurdagah.com  emsnahegrnececom  rN  Office Equipment  ‘01 paseo DEL NoRTE sTED ‘ainuquienout, 98713800  sm eonune rt THOMAS SCHIMOLER Fa psa  Cite Git  SESE SANCHEZ JT  ‘Sandia Presbyterian Church 1704 anes dt Naa NE, 0564040 a seas. Og  Commun nvtton Conant Wei  Judson McCollum  [FREE Market Analysis tn (505) 8588828  ‘sete S05 $58-428072 080 2  ou anya snopaat  AARDWOLF ENTERPRISES  “-, Residential Construction y Denton and Basle  ‘Additions ~ Remodels ~ Repairs ~ Replacement  203 Advertising  [The Grit Sandia Peak Unity Company,  ‘New Mexico is facing vevee ought conditions this summer. Fortunately the wells servicing the  ‘Sandia Weights area are sot slgnticant reductions Intel evels. Nevertheless, the  Sandia Peak Ulty Company balioes It importa to form our customers of water conservation measures These ‘measures not only save walt, they May also help to reduce your monthly bi.  March-April 2003  +) estat an ctr ow flow tot. Thine abe 18 gallos water peas v.38 gallons oF more Iatignter ur eto Ate pes poten ohm  “Takes ahower ta of ae At but can weapon 38 gon twa eset waning wh shaving behing oureh Toc ns Eon eng  SSG6419 Scat Option "then Opn "3°  undines sandiahssttscriiecom arly Aprit  Last week to prune your roses. It is oo late to prune frit tees.  ‘Tuno-up your lawn mower and sharpen the blade,  ‘Check irrigation system for leaks and clogged cemiters.  Prune grapes  ‘Already purchased your tomato plants? 1) ‘Repo in a larger pot and set outdoors during the day (if nt too cold) and bring indoors each night. 2) Plant outside using « Wall-O-Water plant protector.  [Last chance wo plant cool season vegetables. “Time to plant seed potatoes. ‘Hummingbirds first arrive in Albuquerque on ‘their migration northward, s0 get those Feeders ready!  Mid-April  [Last average day of frost is April 17. Do you fee lucky to chance i?  First fertilizing for trees and shrbs (including roses).  ‘Heartier shrubs, tees, and perennials begin to show up at local nurseries.  Plant spring bulbs such as canna, dali, ‘ladiolus, and lly. ‘Cottonwood trees begin to pollinate,  ‘A good time to plant mams.  Late ape  ‘Check local nurseries for the best selection of roses you will sce all yea long.  Check houseplants for insects and prone back legay overgrowth.  Late April to early May is time to spray pision, Ponderosa, and mugo pines for pine ip maths ‘Check local nurseries, newscasts oF newspaper for exact times.  Newest edition of Sunset Western Garden Book, page I, features a Sandia Heighs* arden!  Time to use grub contro on your lawn, especially fescue and bluegrass  ‘Whats blooming in April? Purple-laf plum, redhud, peaches, apple, crabappls, and cherries (toes; Lila, saucer magnolia, spirea snd Japanese snowbuil (shrubs): Lady banks ‘ose, and wistri (vines); Upright rosemary, cherry sage, creeping phox, Mexican evening  Primrose, candy taf, wood violet, Bowles mauve walflowcr, coral bell, salvia superba, ‘catmint,bive fax, chocolate flower, and purple robe (perennials); Daffodils, bleeding hea, ‘and early tals (bulbs); snapdragon, pris ‘stock, viola and punsy (annuals)  arty May  ‘© “Safe from late frosts”. Time to plant warm season vegetables (lomatoes, peppers, eg plant, melons, squashes, and cucumbers) and ‘annuals (dahlia obelia, nasturum, verbena, cosmos, zinia,colews, marigold,aser and alyssum),  ‘= _De-thatch warm season lawns.  Mid. May  ‘© May 12th is Mother's Day. Dost forget the one ‘who brought you into the world! (P'S. Wives ‘are jus as important too!)  ‘© Second feeding of your cool season lawn and the first feeding of your warm season lawn. ‘+ Time to plant warm season grass seed such as  ‘aalo o bv gramma grasses.  ‘+ Local nurseries have an excellent selection of trees, shrubs, and perennials Time to start that garden you designed a few months back.  ‘+ Place afew pennies in your bindbath. Copper ‘deters fungal growth and is safe forthe birds.  ‘© Watering should beset o higher frequency to reflec the hoter growing months.  Late May  ‘© Prune carly season flowering shrubs and vines such a lilac, forsythi, winter jasmine, ‘lowering almond, and wisteria. You can prune up tothe second week of June.  ‘+ Time to we granular fungicide on your prize lawn (chiefly fescue and bluegrass) io prevent summer fungal problems.  ‘+ What's blooming in May? Hybrid locust, ‘alalpa, tamarisk, and chitalpa (trees); Austrian ‘copper rose, apache plume, weigela, potentilla, Jena broom, Spanish broom, wood's rose, and ‘Texas privet (shrubs); Red yucea and ocotilo (€2ct and semi-succuless); Deiphiium, ‘allaria, baby’s teeth, red valerian, yellow  yarrow, pincushion flower, penstemons, gaura,  coreopsis, and red hot poker (perennials) Late tulips, oriental lilies, ii, and daylity (bulbs) dahlia, Jobelia, nasturtium, verbena, cosmos, Zinnia, coleus, marigod, aster and alyssum (onnuals),  {The Grit  Page #18  ‘March-April 2003)  LETTERS TO THE EDITOR  "Note fom the Baitor:  ‘The views expressed in all letters published ae the views of the author [s} and not necessarily the view of the SHIA Board.  ‘We ask that, when ever possible, you limit the length of your lee to % of a8 ¥4x 11 page and ‘that, if possible, you send it to us via email  in" Word” ‘Deadline for submission of ltrs articles for publication is by 3pm en the second Friday ofthe following mons. Janey, March, May, July, September and November. ‘We apreciate you cooperation.  Riek Regarding Design for park to be  located at Cedar Hill Rd. and Tramway Blvd.  rom: Kathy Fraser, Maya Erick, and Charlie Fitch Sandia Heights residents  We thought the 3/1003 meeting went very well with ‘prod participation from interested residents with ‘Varied suggestions and issues laid out. Our thoughts ior the meeting:  ‘©The skateboard park won't work as it would be too noisy in that area. However we still ‘think it't a good idea to have a small one (ouybe like the one in Taos at the ‘community center adjacent 19 the new ive rink) in the area for our pre-teens and tens. ‘We have seen kids over in the Glenwood Hills shopping parking. lot skateboarding round sidewalks, almost going into Montgomery. Ax we heard a thie mesting, the grassy tre at Litle Cloud is filled with oatheads. How about building a pit skateboard park in hat aca and puting up an  shaped shade structure on the SW comer with Benches?  ‘© We would aso nix the idea of a tennis court 18 that docan’t seem to fit the area and could also be noisy, Perhaps this eould be placed somewhere else in Sandia Heights or ia Albuquerque Acres. A half basketball cout would probably be enjoyed but could be noisy also and maybe could be developed in Lite Cloud.  ‘+ Most people with young kids and grandkids agreed we should have a grassy area. This should be designed to minimize goathead invasion. One of our backyard areas has rocks, bark chips, xerscaped plants, crusher rocks, and in some places walls and we do tot have ary goathead problem even though the rest of our land is natural, (.. filled with cectuses and gostheade!). A combination of, ‘man-made buriers and other ideas from  ‘could be raised for items to enhance the park such as improved landscaping or interesting ‘wooden play easy-climbing truce  contact Kathy Fraser at 797-4299 or ‘cascr222hman.som or Chace Fitch at 400-7452 or emiaswep.com  SSS  aw Smattatants iT RErETD  The Sana Heights March Meeting wat hel atthe home ‘of Peggy and Al Oncas on March 19. Laure Lange, local artis and landscape designer, presented very Informative program on New eric Plats for Landscaping And Fnjoymers  ‘UpComing Rvents: Our next mestng i scheduled for Wedliy May T4*, Sania Heights resident Ed Payne  ‘wil havea short preseason on Balancing Woter Supplies With Demand in the Middle IRs Gronde Region. We wll sino besnstorm programas fr text year's meeting. If yo ares member an plan lo beings gues tothe May mectng. ri you ae nota member ‘fhe Wildfower Chi and wish to and plese ell Khondeh Payne at 797-406 Tecation of the meeting.  ‘The Anaual Garden Tour is scheduled for Satay, ane 14% 9 noon. The 1” garden Isat the home af Don and Jan Hooper at 2886 Tramway Place. Information fr all gardens ‘ce the tur wil he svailble heaton All residents of Sanda eights are welcome © ‘it the gardens on he tour lease remem he homes ar ot open ring the tour and poets ae allowed  ‘To-become member, pease senda check for the annual membership fc a 5.00 payable te the Sandia eights Wikiiower Club to Susan Cook, 1842 Tramway Terrace Lawp, Albuquerque, NM 87122.  N ‘PRESORTED STD. USS, POSTAGE PAID  tin PERMIT #375. Seam ‘ALBUQUERQUE, NM Ato  Support our troops! 