(CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF DETACHED STRUCTURES ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS ‘WITHIIN SANDIA HEIGHTS,  The overalintent of thse guidelines isnot to discourage the construction of detached srctees, but rather to enconrage ‘tractres that rein complete compliance withthe covenants re consstnt withthe spe and color of the primary ‘resdence and donot detract fom the value ofthe residence orang properex. Detached srctaesshsid come Cinder the same scrtiny as wall any other srvctare bo they npange om any setbacks? do ey bck ny ‘leet? do they present an ansighy view 10a meghhor?. ec. ceptable size willbe dependent spon he ie ofthe ‘residential lo, the overal sz of he primary esldentil buildin. nd lcaton on he lot ofthe detached Dulin. (Overbuldng ones lot has a detrimental impact upon immediate neighbors aswel as the overall troundig are.  LOCATION: Must comply with sacks specifi within appkable restive covenants Smaller taldigs(sorage shed sz) shouldbe lead ade ofa walled i o fenced in area of a cose the ‘primary tal a reaonably poste so tht they ae genealy screned fom the View of meigers ard Foca vehicular ah size: = ‘Storage sheds of upto 10x12  Garagetworksbop statis of up 10 24 x28; shuld wot exceed 20% ofthe size (heated Noor space) ofthe primary resident bling = Bidigs larger than a double car parage size are scooped  ELEVATION / ARCHITECTURAL STYLE: = ‘Single eel on concrete lib is srongly encouraged 2 Overall eight sould not excod the Beeb primary reiace oF 18 fot maximum {Except for orage sheds, match exiting primary rdotal buldng i stye  [EXTERNAL FINISH AND COLOR:  Fina and ole must be compliant wih appicable reine covenants Finish should be the same as or similar tofcompatie with that ofthe primary rescaling ‘Mighlyreective finishes wil nx be approved except fr sorage sheds gompleey screened fom view Roeting material and color must be compliant with applica rerictve covenants and sold be tna that ‘contained on the primary residential being  INTERNAL FACILITIES  Most lots witha Sanda Heighs ae spied a resident lots withthe restriction that no stratus shall be ‘erected, altered. place or permuted to emai on any resent fot ee than one deched single amily ‘dvcling and buldingsrelned thereto. Bad nthe above any outhadnecomarung wien and facies trich would eget emporay or permanent reudatlwse wil be approved as nt beng compliant with the spirit ane intent ofthe veseiive Covenants Half bs /madoows re acceptable Kitchens ities and tubs showers re mot  ‘Treasverers Report-Chery iverson T CASH FLOW - August 2003, | RECEIVED ji}  ace $305.00 ‘Advertsing 510837 Members Bues | Conaition August 21, 2003 srsaana cash in Banks EXPENSES Checking $17,108.14 Sommatee Expense co ssrg7274 ‘Commanicatons Pety Cash $8500 “Git Mating $596.99 Total Cash in Bank $49,080.88 Executive Committee Other Assets (at Cost) Donation ‘100.99 Computers & software $4210.05 ‘Tal Commitee Exe 540898 Dve from Advertsing Sold 0.00 Event Signs 3164.56 Ansurance- Liab (prop) 377325 Hobday Decorations S725 Inv Giassogs $749.09 Lega! Oce Accessories $120708 SHHA vs Cohn ‘sizs2.19 fee Furnture $5080 Cohen vs. SHA ‘eatoay Postage in meter ‘3162.00 otal Legal s21aii0 Postage Buk $373.73 repaid Expense $300.00 Prepaid Rent $991.10 ‘Securty Deposits 1.07575 40.74 Total Other Assets sires $5033 $105.22 Total Assets 863,777.88 11383 ‘ye2s1 Liabilities $0155 LegelReserve $20,000.00 $121.42 Prepaid Advertsing ‘4.02550 i139 Total Liebilties $24,028.50 $354.95 $1712 Cash in Banks tess Habidties $25,096.38 31,989.78 fee stat $3.67086 eroos 100600 This issue of the Grit was edited by Ralph Rudolph. Any comments should be sent to him via the office. A Little Total Disbursed $10,066.75 Grit will be produced in November. lease send any contributions by November 1  {the Grit Page? ‘October-November 2003  Albuquerque Beralillo Cousy Unification ity A arf reading ofthe carter makes i ‘Charter Review lear what ite contol ofthis governeat is ine hands of the people of Albuquerque ‘The fis thing that got my stenton about the unification was the ralizaion Albuquerque ‘There are fow checks and balances inthe pays ove 40% more in property taxes fo run carte. It read “winner ake all” control  the city in addin to what weal pay fu of local goveramaxt. The manager wil slot the county The proposed charts does der his ona intemal Auditor. The commission will  ths pat new eesti ahd be hs om Ps Ber which store expanded tax base. However, after reading ‘without compensation. Both the Internal ‘hares, {ele this char so ood fer ‘Adtran he Ecs Board shouldbe ce of syne in thei omy. aliens by Ue mange and conmiston Tie first thought for us outside the citys The manager will select his own Police ‘would you like to be annexed by off  eparsmct head. Will Sandia Heights expect beste police coverage? Sandia Heights a the rest of monty residents wil have almost 0 infucce o the selection of the Police Chit Please read the proposed charter before you consider voting frit, When it tars geting to ‘mundane to read, shen ti you each the pars on powers and tation ofthe manager and commission tax wt allo pay forte city ‘hey want On theinteeto 10  ssw aboacenet.  Albuquerque? The rime result of 0 called ‘unification wil be info the ameation of the rest of the county and its tax base into the cay Everyone ouside the uroncity wi lose mast of hi influence ove the operation ‘ofthe cambined government. The details aso remove much ofthe say of voters living in the ety,  "The proposnd charter lets evenone ve on 8 rmavor and the individual cammissionr of the eleven. Thn the mayo and Commission Since, take complete contol of lost the ire  county and wit was Albaquergie, Te mayer itl Canningham ‘mina unified government manage and  1934 Quail Run Loop NE alter coaimasion by the commision. he Ioagierge NM 87122  manage operates goverment for all of wf a  ‘the conolingfacon of te comission Sandia Highs resident for on shangeswidhin the manages 2 ear contrac, = vel probably hae nw manager. The ‘Slut Poodee ‘Commission my azate cima by  ordinance special districts and sthortos mee spifiesrvice ads or safeguard property ofthe residents ofthe Cou  ‘fa deat peson hs to got cour, i si called a hein?  ‘Whois it people say they “lat tke a tay  Starting the yale a chasers approved by when Babies wakeup enry tro bars?” ‘mgr of voter in the entire couny, the ween  ‘xsing governess aon 6 expend ‘What care bam xigialy have? ‘moncys beyond thei current budgets to pay  forthe wansion. Everyone's tus canbe ‘Since breads square, why sso mich expected 0 ineeas contin throwshout _  sandwich et round? the several yar of ransition.  oc ound pizza come i square bo ‘Someone previously has said, “I fear the ww ™ sare ox? fice emotion mold be ane y th  ‘The Grit Page 3 October-November 2003,  ‘From the Covenant Support Committee setocitions tromgont the country ore  WE ARE NOT ALONE -sruggling to dal withthe same problems By Wendy Wells Inherent to ther basic structures, Sandia The New York Times (uly 2703) eights is not unique. We face many sinular ‘eoently reported that approximately on ot problems, However we must work togeter so ‘of every six people $0 milion residents in that these dificutes do nt cast negative this country liven communities governd by shadow over our community: One tp the homeowner associations, This was reported 0 ‘covenant committee has taken in tying 19 bea 21% increase since 1998. Why? One ‘adres this ssue st intodce mare lengthy reason may be that homoowner associations procedures of mediation when conics often benefit the ity and county in which ‘merge among homeowners. But thi step is they reside. The building of new playgrounds only a begiming. Board members and and parks as well as services and maintenance homeowners alike must become more aware ‘esponsibilities have ben aken over and paid ‘ofthe complexities of our unique situation an ‘or by homeowner associations, This has work tog to find more positive soluions etayed costs fr city and county ‘to conflicts when and if they eccu. Orly an sovernments, Therefore their growth has approach such as this wil tray protect he largely born encouraged. But ther appears to quality of lie within our community also be a downside. The New York Times reports tha the tensions between homeowners ‘Community Service & Members sand their associations are lo onthe is, Ths ‘By: Chuck MeCleod ‘is apparently det the Fact hat when conflicts occur berween residents and their ‘We are going forward with or plan to have associations, the organizational procedures are ‘SHHA membership cards which canbe used sch thao third pany hasbeen assigned 10 for discoums we previously negotited, We ‘mediate conflicts. Therefor both esidonts and plan ona cancert tobe eld in January, 2 homeowners mast depend on the cours a sotball game challenge fom the Board and fist and las resort to etl difrences. As the the Halloween Party ltr ‘his month st Times points out, small squabbles can end up Futures for Children, We offer these events in ‘in hage eighbohod bates which esl in ‘the hope of building a sense of Community costly itgtion that either party can ford. As you can see, we're becoming far more Does this situation sound familia’? Ink itis proactive!  elf to know that many bamcowner  ‘The Grit Page 4 ‘October-November 2003  Mark Boslough ~ Trafic, Safer, & Evironment Chair  (On August 16, a Sandia Heights resident was Adving co Laure Loop when she encountered ‘young bicyclist in ber lane going the wrong <drection She attempted to top, but was ‘unable w avoid comact with he 12-year-old ‘The boy ended up geting an ambulance ride and enment for 4 broken le, cas, and trises  ‘fe spa mit had boon higher oi the river had gored the spe limit = the ‘outcome cou have been mach worse. Ove 1S ‘ph sped limis might seam oo fo o seme residents. With our arrow, carving roads, Timed visibly, and chide ca bytes, 15 ‘mph i sppropnate  ‘Youngsters make occasional mistakes. We all ‘dtm Sandia Hei, we love ou bis. Plea ep tht in mind nxt ne You thik shout speding fs not worth the risk  Mark Bosiough ~ Trai, Safy, & Exnrcement Chir  ‘This isthe time of year when ox carina ae shit bet. Also own a at brah, hie yellow blossoms val the beauty ofthe ‘colorfl aspen of he high country andthe golden corto of the bose Unfortunatly, they have their drawbacks ln addition smlling ike sweaty gym socks, they block the view long some of our roadway when they gett Bay  According to Berzlill Coumty Ordinance ‘Code Seton 66-225), adopted in 1988 cis the bomeowne’ responsiblity © martain be setback aoa and al plantings heroin, including chamasa Nevertieless, th county ‘has worked withthe SHHA on "courtesy ‘mowing project” to hep about’ fet of the ‘edd clea of shu and! vepeaton you don't rast the county to do a god job, ‘ow he me make mae tht the cham  lng the od aiacent to your ls ot resting an unsafe obstacle for walkers cr ‘driven Phas ri it bck you dot wat ‘the county to mow it.  Become we have lots of ods ad Kimi reseces, please submat request for county mowing tothe SHIA office and we will frente them wah the cour Than we ca ‘il ejoy the fragrance of newly mown cha  ‘Dying Pinan Wendy Wels ~ Teli, Safety & Envircament  ‘May ofthe pines within Sandia Heighes Jaze een fal damaznd by she bart bee eur pinns oF eter pine wees have been damaged othe point of n0 sean, please have them removed, They ara fire danger and ‘nfosation source. The bark beetles  ‘ean by wind, somethung we have plenty of As the warm weather continent Fall, ‘ak beetle civ will continue. Ifyou see ‘ead fsa om the bark owt mk 539 limbs, he bee is probably inetd but esi pas. Rowlands Nursery sas there ‘ssl ime speny using a High Yield 38 Pla scutionPlesse consider spraying 1 sail ving wes  HALLOWEEN PARTY OCT 31"  4405.90 PM at Futures for Children. Tress an ‘ees! Th is what awaits al kids fom toes to teen athe SHHA sponsored party And it's FREE. There wil belts of yun candy 01 ‘ach ick-or-eat bag, a stolling magician, fce iaing, hunted lacs, a cupcake walk bobbing fer apples, bean bg oss, anda" Mumouy Wrap” ‘me. "Mims tobe” will be provided ~ or ou ‘cn choone your own Tell al ou ends to come ‘medjan de fn Paes are permed they trdane!  ‘The Grit  Pages ‘October-November 2003  Why Belong to SHHA? By: Ralph Rudolph, VP  Sandia Heights is an unincorporated community, and is Bkely to remain ‘unincorporated. The reasons are politcal. This means that we have no “government” to settle issues or plan for the future. All we have is the SHHA, acting as a pseudo-government, and ‘various services provides by Sandia Services, such as Security. This is not ‘uncommon; communities run by Homeowners Associations are increasing across America  Let's face a few facts. For the first {twenty years or $0 of SHHA’s existence, it was primarily a construct to serve Sandia Service's purposes as “fee! ‘B00d" It had little power to do much, as all covenant activities were handled by Sandia Services. When they decided to ‘gradually transfer resposibilies to SHIA, it took time to figure out how t0 handle these new responsibilities ‘through alot of trial and error. For instance, Covenant enforcement went from neighborhood patrols to hired Contractors to our current committee ‘methods which continue to be refined,  ‘We had no office until recently, had no ‘website, and our records, kep by an ‘outside contractor, were ina jumble stored ina garage: Board members were ‘often unaware of what past Boards had done. Many ofthese problems have been corrected and we ae busy solving ‘more now that we are operating with a better se of Bylaws. The Assocation is improving dramatically  (On our website, we have recently added three new links. The frst is a  ‘compilation of the past ten years of Board Motions now that records have been sorted. The second isa link to Board Procedures, the first of which covers the hiring and dismissal of staf employees. The third is an ACC fink. Other procedures will soon be added Another new link will be added, listing all Committee Charters and responsibilities so residents will become familar with the Committees. We also hope to add dates when the various ‘Committees meet so interested residents can attend them, We advise residents 10 ‘occasionally log onto our website to stay up to date  ‘As you may know, SHHA has been achieving other major improvements ‘Cedar Hill Park is one. Additional speed  attending our Board meetings on the second Wednesday of each month at 7 PM, held at the Sheriff Sibrava substation near the NE corner of Paseo del Norte and Eubank to make your viewpoints known,  We frankly need your support through increased membership and interest in SHHA, SHHA is becoming run very well compared to other Homeowners ‘Associations. t's our "government."  ‘Jesus is coming. Look busy! Worry, God knows all about you  1f.911 operator has a heart attack, ‘whom does she call?  ‘The Grit Page’  6 October-November 2003,  [FREE CLASSIFIED ADS FOR MEMBE  ‘Space i limit, first come frat  ‘Se i a yee Naf ores fever maga he tae Settee Emre “eegurter Rea Mecuar Sea Lang oe Conte Net Oe Fomor rineroane meg her fe wo Fos Che CONFUSING OPTIONS?  . 15s 29-888 ; wy aces “YH  Personal Care Services, LLC  Providing added security to your home and neighborhood.  REAIK  Now Ofer Ogun Prod Detrered to Vout Hone or Office 4 Sep Orne ‘Unda Caldwell, cn, cm eer enable rgencnson  oct We want to thank all who advertise in the Grit and support the SHHA  Thomas Smidt It Tox, Estate & Business Law, NALLC  Your One Call  830-HOME:~  For All Your Home Needs  a  service jewelry repai  fating luch’ More,  (505) 269-1342  & Prudential  »  Stofac Team sell  in Sandia Heights.  Rolfing®  Sructun! Fregraton  CYNHIA D O25CH. MS Certified Rotfer®  505.440 3499 cadreif@lobo net  Sandiago's Mex  LOCATED AT THE BASE OF THE TRA\ 40 TRAMWAY ROAD NE ALBUQUE 1 87122-2018,  HANDIWORKi  Referral Service *+ Ucensed, sured Contractors and Handymen Honest, Accurote Job Prices. Guaranteed Werk  Thasandt of Sled tome! Fs Call 275-2758  Landscape Design & Consultations  Cleamp & Hauling  ($05) 856-6617  lierra  Madre  Advertisements dont represent an endorsement by SHIA ot its officers  Amber Skorka, Director 688-8819  Tram Sm Rf  *pieitece wt emiagntial Conatrnetion  Equipment SRG ‘Deaton ana maine  tue resto vez 0 Additions ~ Remodels - Repairs - Replacement  Leters wo the Bor  ‘My husband and | walk nearly every dy on the sets of Sandia Heights. Like many, he season we moved here 8 years ago was largely ue tothe bent seting and reat ‘epuavon of the neighborhood.  Lately, however, we have noted damatic increase in speeding onthe roads, In al hee ofthe most flagrant cases over the st few months the devers were tenage boys, ad all were speoting in excess of 40 mph ‘Teamway Lane 1 would gues that one was going over $0 mph However, the one that ‘led me enoagh to actualy write yu (and call ‘SHE Security) 1th one that happened today in oat ofthe Outpost Te Rik A silver & dooe Toyo Caney, between 2 to S yeas old at best 5s, was speding down Tramway Lane as ‘my husband walked cur do. [yelled athe ever w show down and was responded to ‘with name calling fing Mipping, and seeleration There was no permanent icense plate, o Tbe providing you the mamber. The ds didnot go far, choosing to hide ot atthe (Outpost. We wate and when they shunk out we confronted them again. They were fil of ‘emscives and ying tobe tough, but were too fearful to back the car wp and et ws ee them more closely. The were 4 ofS boys in the car, andthe ones we saw were angle, in ‘thei te ee, and had dark bai. The diver may ot ive in the aes as he tr curved ws ‘he pased ws on Tramveay heading South.  ‘This is obviowsly not the behavior weld ik in or neighborhood, 0 im asking for he ‘commute 10 consider Some ideas how 19 ‘dress this poblem bear pets 0 ut of ‘und tht semoone is ur. One posibiliy i 0 encourage pple to write down lene pate ‘numbers of egregiously speeding cars and tepor hem i the Grit (plan on sending an ‘mil tthe Get wih a description ofthe car ‘because if was a pent of oe ofthe ids in  ‘Some Residents seem Angey  ‘was naromty mised by a car while riding ry hele, rounding a commer gone up the il pst north of Lyx Loop on Tramay Ln ot ‘Wednesday Jey 30a approximately 11 00am, “The car stopped and turned around a he sa 3 fend of his coming down the hill whom be apparel had some buses with [thought ‘Server was turing around io se iT was OK.  ‘While be was stopped I approsched him and ‘shod hn ie was aware of Bow ft he was sing? He answered that he had noida of his ‘Seed and indicated tome it a not mate. (elim is 1Smph a I suppose he was (ging over 3omaph) He aida I i tive ‘Spore and [had mo ight wo be riding in the smal ofthe lane  ‘informed hi hat dive in this Imighborhod, whch has 90 bearing whtserver, and that my choices Were not many riding fr riding my bicycle cn “Tramway Li. AS we know thee ae no bike ashe cr shoulders o either ride atk, wheel & ‘by caiage, or ober pedestrian uss four ‘ads in Santis Height  ‘As a residont of Sandia Heights anda monber (SHILA fr over 23 years, Lhave sen the lity of oar neighborhood decline each yar. Maybe becae of he pressure of eof what ‘rcs tha person may bear he may thnk te can ive by his own res. Ihave bad people ‘el me hat they will deve at my spend they ‘wantin Sandi Heights, and tat is most ‘pparet as time poet by.  Sandia Heights does not nod resins wo ar ite abou tha maznbon the tafe of (hese cx our rods, such as sped ts, a tho coun to cters. The only sluion for thos: that have inthis marmer acd 0 ‘come more aware of their suroundings and  ‘He car want wo know what idiots my child show ety 0 others around then was riding with) Sea M.Eng Deborah Griswold ‘17 Tramway La NE. SS-856-1198 ‘The Grit Page 7 October-November 2003  amp Conor Upgrades Offer An Alernatbe 'By Kerns Bato, Assoc MA  “The AugSepe Gat ance "Swamp Cover Comerson™ provided soe value information on replacing swamp coolers with frigate ir cousioners The tie eis water savings sat seiet fom juniper allergies conversion stvammges To those, [sould add reduced rnntenanc, reli frm & wide rage outdoor allergens (nt just juniper), and coker ar ding pari of high amity andor extremely hgh ‘epee.  As the article points ot however, cmerson an ‘operating cots re sigan ois importa ‘weigh the advastagescarefily baie desing switch T woud also add tht aperding sor ‘swamp cole ee eplcing it with 8 single it ‘Suporte cole can make your system just at “ate a air eotitosng anda faction of he  ‘Those who ar alles to indorpalltion, such as cutgassing foe balding atenals wal ame ashings, wil probably no Benet fre an at condones since tends 1 circle plat, slowing them to tid wp omer time. Re sue ou Snow what you areal to bere you dai  yon are eting guilty about sing "al hat wer” ‘m sour swamp cole dont be. Gries, swamp coolers we 2 3 Simos as mich waler as cqunalou ai cuties ir conditioners 1 whoppise 3 5 times as mich exergy! tn Albugueraas, we have tended foes the red Ao save water but we als fe ney shortage. ‘Wa is renewable, bat foes els ar ot and tring them canter besvly 10 hal ‘warming and ir quality probes  ‘Take the fllowing eps oe sure that your  stamp coder i 0 wasting water  + Adj th fat so that wate does ow out ‘ofthe ovtiow te  you sven coker has a Hea dnp pump, dscnnes t  “+ Replace the rat aol water an fn sped el sch with thrmostat it  © Fer ighrefiency and older ir, place a Sou sel swamp coker with single inet faportive cooker equipped with a ‘armen  Our water uty i such that eed an une ‘pimp systems are not needed on ramp coolers ‘thy ot wane occas of wate, Wang down our pcs ose in he sping is cough 0 maintain Micisy. For single inlet uns, weer, the ap pp probly justified Ho een he of the more expensive thick pad Ehmiating odes can et Water se up 16 62-70%. Damp pump eral ean save 10%,  [A themostat kit wil alow your stamp ease eyel and ol an change spe to meet cooling ow in uch the same ay sar conditioner do Lowa ting supply stores sell mn for under ‘$100, Adting a themosat kt can cat energy use ‘by petaps 10-19% or ane depending on bow you Inve been using your manual conta  ‘Our cima is jut about ideal fhe evaporative cling But when tecperatces hit ipl digits ‘he traditional swap cooler might not cut it If ths Sa problem, convening Wo = single inlet ‘evapative cole will pose oer ait and do The trek a action ofthe eo sieomdoning,  ‘When humidity goes up so does the temperate of he se oaming out of your swamp cook Forty or humic is lowest ring the st ofthe day exopt when tains. And when tis, mature’ owm evaporative cooler cools ws oF  Unless you have speci needs, such alleges pullen, why not ie seme 6 do the seasonal ‘stnance on you ty ramp cnr ad ve the ar conditioning biz bucks while dong your art obalp conserve eneey?  be happy to aver ay of our qutins.L es ‘erected a 856-7120 or Kemal com.  erey Bolo ives in Sania Heights, works ‘Sa resdental digas, 4 Harybedocated eager aa a szadete of UNS Sehoa of Architect and Ping  ‘The Grit  Page 8 ‘October-November 2003,  Holiday Lights in the Heights  “The third anual Lights nthe eights is geting under way. This prot kas the hotidy season in Sandia Heights wih elecnc hminara lec harass tat you so sewhere athe Fel price of ‘S20 oe more wil be vale to SH eins a he wholesale rice of 19 ets tax fot Si) sone.  “There teen huminaia ina set covering thirty fee, Mae in New Mes, they have psi mre, all ‘weather plac bap. and 7-vat candle-ehaped bulls They come with structions and diagrams. We will ‘lo inclode afew hints abou attaching them wo stax, since that isnt abwayscbviow. Do you have 2 hi that you' be willing o share? Send it ous ad wel inca  ‘Sandia Heights esidet Kit Anderson,» profesional organize, has volunteered again 6 head his project. ‘She will purchase electric laminar Sts throwgh ter company. Anderson Orpanizng Systems, passing lng the whelesle pic 10 SH ysdouts (adding ony the ruil tx). Her hand Larry will compile ‘he information on aching and aiplaying te hanna The Andersons aoe Volunteers wil pak up ‘the preordered and pre-paid fuminaria sets and have them avaiable for pick-up at their home, 150 ‘Wisteall Road from 9am to 1:00pm on tw Saturdays, November 29h and December 6th.  Questions? Call Kit at 86-3667  ‘To order electric luminaria atthe wholesale price, lip and mail to Anderson Organizing Systems, 150 ‘Whitetail Road, NE, Albuquerque 87122-1921. Deadline for recip of order and check is October 31, 2003. Ifyou miss the dean. Uy agin nest year  Adres  Phone number (incase there isa question).  | would ike order ets of hamizaria $13.6 which inca My check made out to Anderson Organizing Systems, fo $ (96x unter of es) encod.  ___Fveenclonalideas or experience fr ataching or displaying elec uminara  ‘hve a truck, SUV oF other similar vehicle, and woul be willing fo Bp pick wp cases of Weimar ‘during business hours om he week of November th. Pease cll me.  1 havea way tad something o this pot. Plas cll met alk shot it  October-November 2003  GARDENERS CALENDAR by Dan Cauilo  EARLY OCTOBER  = Octaber receives the the third most rainfall Ballon Fiesta time is here. Last chance to complete landscape insullations. ~ Hummingbirds begin their Fall (southern) migration. But keep those hummingbird feeders fll {or any stragglers. = Time to change swamp coolers over to furnace heat. + Check out the selection of cool season annuals to plant now which includes pansies, murs, primroses, snapdragons, omamental kale and more.  MID-OCTOBER «Plana day tip to see the Aspens turing yellow inthe mountains and Maples turing red inthe Manzanos.  Haren tomaom elo they tome, Pt gem tts na enny window pene pace in Paper  + Last chance to plant peony.  = Dig up tuberous dablias, gladiolus coms, and canna chizomes and store inthe garage until next spree.  = This isan optimum time o plant bulbs before the ground frezes and selection becomes poor with ime. Plan tulips, daffodils, crocus, hyacinths and paper whites.  “Begin FallWinter clean-up.  LATE OCTOBER «Daylight Saving Time ends October 26. So relax, set that clock back one hour, and get some  cxeasleep.  "The fis kiling frou wna asive by now. If ita, cut back onthe watering frequency and  ‘wu later in he day suchas 11 o'coee-  Disconnect outade gen hose from bib and cover bib with syrofoam protector rom teeing  ‘erperanre,  “ffyou have cue pond Sa af pny en somone at rs dos ot nage have a otoor remove otal not  “aloween s rida, Gober Slat. Hora ely spooky experience, vith 2744 Tramony Cicle  Torte bet Halloween sup,  - Wha’ blooming in Ouobe? Abela, roses, and rssian sage (shrubs; Chery sage, coral bes,  ‘hummingbird umpe, maximal sunflower, mountain ate, bedding ase, rod Valea  ‘Pampas gras. egal mist dee gras, and mexican evening prinwose (perennial); Liat and  ‘anna lly Cob) Dintus, seapdeagens, pansy, ornamental kale, and cnglch prmroce.  EARLY NOVEMBER  - November isthe driest and second least windy month.  « This i a great time to begin Fall Winter clean-up in the garden. Cut perenials to the ground, shape up evergreen and deciduous shrubs, and rake fallen debeis.  « Cuta fre break around your house by trimming dormant grasses to the ground and removing, ‘larnmable materials 20 feet away from the house o other sructurs.  ~ Tine to feed lawn and other outdoor plants witha wintecizer (erties.  + Set water ies to the depest part of the pond o prevent them from freezing.  The Grit Page 10 ‘October-November 2003  MID-NOVEMBER  lose off evergreens to dislodge aphids.  ~ Begin to foree indoor bulbs such a8 paper whites, narcsus, and amarylis for Christmas blooms! Prepare vegetable beds for the 2004 plaating season by rotoilling organic mulches and frtikuers into the soil. Ifyou do this eary, the muches have several months to compos.  + We are entering the coldest part of the year, so et irigation timers to water once & weck or less tnd be sure to begin watering about 11:00 AM.  LATE NOVEMBER ‘Thanksgiving is Novembee 271 Place a lg into your pond so that the fish can get crygen. Its beter to thaw a spot your fish ond than io break the ice. Stop feeding fh unl warmer weather.  “Fil your birdbath daly wo tha birds have a constant source of wale.  This is gret time to begin your Chistmas shopping to avoid the crows,  What's blooming in earl) November? ‘Regal mist dee gras, pampas grass, lavender spice, tnd chery sage (perennials; Chamnisa and raves brats); Dianthus, snapdragons, pansy, ‘oenamental Kale and english primrose (anual).  Recent Activities  1M: Peal Burs pide cur ‘Semuner Field Trip 08 ‘Angus 16" at the Sandia ‘moantain Although the Grout ha hampered the ftwndince of wilower ‘Me Buras was able poit tute vary of wriflowers tos on ‘enuf and cot dy,  ‘The Vall Patio Supper was at home OFT ad Bob Cain © the gathering had tobe moved indoors Many thnks ‘ou hens who acommodand enor ise Als ‘mary thanks to Dan Calo who pave a shot alk on sanding tips for September und Otcer.  Euture Even edna fev" 70 PM home esos pean Wan Dera 1 Wat Ons De Ua Surman. Dan Caen wl vex preston on ‘Fal lamp Dan il comarca Clg? techs on Sty Nov a 130 AM ae ‘kn of Me Mn Hig 4 Le Oak Lap.  ‘Rind Hcg Resco are woe (a the teembers oe tee to events \  [he Grit Page 11 October-November 2003  Toddlers to Teens! 5 FOOD! LOW teed Pe 8 SANDIA HEIGHTS HALLOWEEN! v WHERE: FUTURES FOR CHILDREN 2 ADDRESS: 9600 TENNYSON a DAY: FRIDAY, OCT. 31. “ TIME: 4:00 TO 5:30 PM alti.  6 Joho Mille See REACK BEAK 80 ME 3  