MERRY CHRISTMAS! ‘THE PRESIDENT'S PAGE  COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT IS COMING TO TRAMWAY BLVD.  Eckerd Drugs is building a store on the west side of Tramway next tothe gas station (San Bernardino) It wll not (for now) have an alcohol permit. The plans do call fora drive~ through prescription window. A bank and other stores may be added in the futur. The builder of the store is aware of all Sandia Heights lighting restrictions.  PNM WANTS $612,000 TO BUILD GAS LINE THROUGH SH NORTH  Public Service of New Mexico (PNM) has notified the SHH that they want an upfront ‘deposit of $612,000 ($4371/houschold in Sandia Heights North) to cover the cost of building 2 main natural gas line. There would be additional costs to homeowners to provide service lines o the homes. We are considering several ways to raise the money including: a bake sale, an economic development loan, anda silent wine auction. ‘Additional suggestions and donations will be accepted.  PINON REMOVAL  ‘The Executive Committ: is considering whether the SHHA should pay for a company to remove dead pinon trees to reduce the spread of bark beetles. If you know of any  ‘dead/dying pinoas in your neighborhood, please call the SHHA office at 97-7793 s0 we ‘cam determine the extent ofthe problem. This is very important. We don't want to end up like Santa Fe with thousands of dead pinons because of letting the beetles spread.  HAVE A SAFE AND JOYOUS HOLIDAY!  Let's all join together in celebrating the Holidays, living inthe best community in New Mexico. tis a pleasure walking through the neighborhoods inthe evening, seeing the <ecorations. Say hello to your neighbors with a smile  NEW BOARD MEMBERS NEEDED  ‘There will be openings for six new SHHA board members inthe 2004-2005 term. If you  ‘are interested in Serving as.a board member please submit your resume to the SHHA. office Treasurers Repor-Chery erson ‘CASH FLOW - November 2003  RECEIVED acc  ‘averssing Members Dues  Executive Commitiow ‘Community Assoc Membership  Total Committee Expense (080 insurance Total insurance fice Expense Computer Lease Office Lease Postage Meter Total Office Expense Oftice Statt Sandia Services  Total Disbursed Received less Disbursed  The GRIT  $195.00 $6,231.64  su7aa09 $18,108.87 so47.02  $800.80 S148  $101.05  $01.51 sera1 $952.17 3096.42 $1159  $3,070.25 $1,965.50 $1,084.00  $17,949.93 $129.74  Prepaid Advertsing Total Uabilies Cash in Banks less lables  Page2  $25,330.14 sa271619  2521 ‘ss8.061.04  $5023.40 $0.00 $164.54 $77.25 $749.00 $1,207.06 $5:30648 ‘$88.90 $1744, $300.00 $991.10  $1,075.75 $15,248.04  $73,320.08  $0.00  $38,081.04  December 2003 PARKS & NEW DEVELOPMENT. fees. The County is considering legislative funding. By: Tim Hale  ‘The County Arts Board has allocated up ‘The following update on Cedar Hill Park to $50,000 for public art at this site. This  is from Adrienne Candelaria: is significant increase over the original allocation and we're very pleased. The  ‘The park design is nearing completion. ‘arts board will andl the proces for  ‘A grading and drainage plan as been advertising and selection. The intention  submitted to the Bernalillo Public Works _istohave the park constuction  ‘Department and is being reviewed. I completed prior to artists preparing their  anticipate approval of the plan by early proposals so that the art piece(s) have a  ‘December: The final landscape plan will connection to the site,  ‘be based on the approved grading and  drainage plan. ‘anticipate having the landscaping plan ‘completed by January and out to bid in  ‘The park elements remain unchanged in February or March, with construction  terms ofthe features. We have 8 starting soon after the bid is awarded.  playground area, viewing area, walking  trails (one paved asphalt), turf area, Please call me at 314-0399 if you have  bocce cour, ¥s basketball court a small any questions.  parking area (3 cas), will estore any  disturbed land atthe east end, and install  plats, trees, shrubs and irrigation. We  ‘had to “bench” two areas to ‘The GRIT is published bi-monthly  accommodate these features. The top or 85 the official newsletter of the  highest level is nearest the townhouses  ‘on the east end and will remain in its ‘Sandia Heights  natural state. A portion ofthe existing ‘Homeowners Association  ‘rail will remain, and a portion will be 2B San Rafsel, NE  rerouted tothe east and south to come Alluquergue, NM 87122  sound tho tree, which cme ‘hone: 08-797-7993  second level. The playground, viewing SOT  trea, buntall cou nd booze cout Fax: $05-856-8544  are on the lowest level closest to the Email:  parking rea and main entrance. This shha@isandiahomeowners.org  area is ADA accessible via a short  concrete walkway that connect o an wow sandishomeownens. ong  asphalt trail that wraps around the  playground and basketball court. If funds Office Hours  allow, we'll installa drinking fountain. Ham = 3pm  We intend to install a shade stroctare Monday ~ Friday  ‘over aportion of the viewing area  depending on funds available. Our  budget is $153,000 and we can use up to  an additional $15,000 from park impact  The GRIT Page3 December 2003  Mandatory Membership in SHHA?- By: Ralph Rudolph  ‘We've all heard some Board members and ex-members express the thought that ‘membership in SHHA should be ‘mandatory, a it is with High Desert or ‘other communities. Why should the ‘nonmembers reap the benefits of SHHA ‘without paying a cent fo its support?  [personally hold an opposite viewpoint. believe that membership in SHHA should be voluntary, that SHHA must prove to Sandia Heights residents that ‘membership in our organization is, ‘beneficial and in their best interest. I believe that this provides the motivation ‘to continually improve our Association and to keep it focused on self- improvement, which is good. Mandatory ‘membership removes this need for sef- improvement, and it removes the necessity to be as ice as possible.  ‘There are HA's where membership is ‘mandatory, and there are some horror stories about what they have done. In ‘one typical case, a husband and wife split up and the husband failed to pay her ‘Support so she was unable to pay her HA. ‘dues, The HA slapped a lien on her and ‘she subsequently lost the home for failure to pay. And it wasn't her fault!  In any case, I do not believe that under ‘current conditions we could make membership mandatory. Perhaps 66% of ‘our residents are members of SHHA, while a change in our covenants to make ‘membership mandatory would require affirmation by 75% of our residents, a tusk that would prove quite difficult  COMMUNITY SERVICE & ‘MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE  By: Mona Lee Schilling  ‘The firs Halloween Pary given by SHILA was a big success and promises tobe an annual event. At least sixty children ina marvelous array of costumes attended to enjoy the ‘wonderflly eoteaining magician, Salomey the Swamy. He was truly the star ofthe party, captivating both children and parents alike with his magic and humor. Also very popular was the ‘Apple Bobbing, the Mummy Wrap, the Cake Wall, the mysterious Haunted Boxes and a Fire Engine. A Bulletin Board will be setup atthe SHHA Office with pictures of the event. Please stop by to se the happy faces!  ‘Congratulations are in order for ‘Chairman Chuck McLeod who assigned the talented Ruth Frazier as sub- chairman to plan the event. Ruth and her committee of Mark Boslough, Ed ‘Coben, Mona Lee Schilling and Wendy Wells did a fine job.  ‘The committe continues to move forward, planning a Town Hall Mecting ‘in 2004, concerto be held sometime in January or February and of course, the popular Wine Tasting in March of "0,  The GRIT Page 4  ‘December 2003,  BERS AND THEIR CHILDREN |  Sepeertchont reine  "* 2 Mien Deter i Sala  Tridente Sundlaleights.com ‘hg $08 BS 83022-0080  (CRREE Marat amas as 2000  @  CONFUSING OPTIONS?  Personal Care Services, LLC  Providing added security to your home and neighborhood.  Mastors  Linda Caldwell, cs, on  ‘Advertisements do not represent an endorsement by SHHA or its officers |  HEIGHTS SERVICES Usitiey Company  ENING SOON! 5  ‘Amber Skorka; Dieefor 688-8819  Tremaray et San laf  'DIGiTECH  coe Aiiions- Resets - Repairs Replacement  HANDIWORK:  Referral Servic  Licensed, insured Contractors ond Hondymen Honest, Accurate Job Prices. Guaranteed Work Thousonds of Satisfied Customerst  Call 275-2758 ‘www hiandysls.com  Sandia Envir al Designs  (505) 856-6617  [We want to thank all who advertise in the Grit and support the SHHA  Your One Cail  830-HOME™  "K  SS 822-9280  =” Full service jewelry repairs  icon And Building, inc  Nuch Sandiago's Mexican Grill  (505) 269-1342  Siete MTOR sees  tmeubraip fo of $8. 00per08  nee tm a rs secoyenareeacet ems ieee Serene Se hieaineas eae, shisha : ee  ene eee  ue in September. Ifyou have  ot eas bend itt ‘Many thanks to Jenison Klinger fer hosting paid yours, ‘meeting and Das for his peat propa oad ‘Sasza Cook.  sae prizes.  (Op Noversber 21, Dan  ture events: emonstated bis“Pall ‘Diane and hon Muelle are hosting the next meeting  Cleo Up techigues 127.0 pa oo Janay 21,2004 athe home, 1218 She garden of George Fckone Ron. The program pene sD Caudilo ‘nd Bonnie Hips ‘ols tope willbe “Problems wih Pos a  (Gown to te gt of onderon Tree” Das wil show ses of oe ditfeent  Dan). He sowed ws ow to tim ative pra ses and prone peren- ‘il shrubs, and tes {or fare row, ab well as fie prevention,  pet dessa plaguing or toss pov ow to sve them frm utr problems.  |All Sandia Heights residents are lavited to jn efor ‘ic veryinfirmative program.  RADIANT FLOOR HEATING By: Tom Zink  ‘As recent home purchaser, my wife and I are copcered about an article in the October 21" ‘Albuquerque Journal regarding falty beating hoses. These hoses are used in radiant floor beating. Our home bas radiant floor heating and wes small rubber tubing to circulate the tid. I have tried to find ou, with litle success, who might have been involved as a subcontractor to Robert Smith Builders, installing the heat plants. My question tothe Assocation is whether there has been any question raised by other owners or concer tha this problem exists here? In the article Goodyear Rubber seems to agree that such a problem has been discovered and a U.S. District Court judge tentatively agreed toa $236 milion dollar settlement. It would be a shame if some of the Sandia Heights homeowners missed out os ths if they have a problem. Intend to <iscuss this withthe proper New Mexico Department see if they can help. I'd appreciate bearing fom any residents on this.  The ORT Page Il December 2003  ‘(Free for SHHA Members, youth first)  Call Heather for Retired Hospice Nurse Looking for Babysitting House sitting & Pet Care Intermediate Tennis Reliable 17 yr old with Sandia Heights resident Player ‘essporaton Avalble References available {Call Judy: 296-3816 ‘school Call Anne: 856-6896 Teese Canceled Stampe ie USA 1930s, 1940s, 19505 360601 Messy House? (Call Bill: 856-2622 Need reliable, hard Piano Experienced Tutor working cleaning lady? Lesson Elementary, Middle & Call: 332-9155 ol High School ‘Newcomers Alert! Intermediate Sandia Heights resident | | Meet other nice folks new to Call Anne: 821-5274 ‘Current High School “Teneo Teacher referees | | civ and social evens Mouse Cleaning Coates 26-5605 Call: 798.9769 Experienced caer, }—_—_—_____| Boulders Wanted Call Dora: 315-2295 Responstbte Sittor Call Doug: 858-3406 14 yes old, Red Cross For Sale You Cal, {Haut Certified tas Ifyou need help hauling Call Hilary: 856-7023 Call Doug: 858-3406 — Teas oe | Experienced 17 yr O18 | -xperienced 15 yr Experienced 17 yr OM | | Sepie Tank Products Worker Personalized service (Odd jobs, watering, mail 100% satisection guarantee pick up, walking pets Call Bl or Carol: 266-8482 References available Year OW Bey Call Jordan: 856-1483 15 Year cae oe Available for odd jobs and Responsible 14 yr Old petsiting house sitang Babysitting & odd jobs Cal Calisa: 886-1283 Call Patrick: 856-1283 Call Sarah: 821-2326  ‘GOOD NEWS! There is anew Invisible Fence dealer in town.  My son and I started a new Invisible Feace dealership in September and we have already belped many of you with batts and repairs. Invisible Fence of Albuquerque is dedicated tw honest and reliable customer service  For those of you unfamiliar with Invisible Fencing Pet Containment, the Invisible Fencing idea is simple, We create a safety barrier around your property and teach your dog to heed its warning signal, Every dog and every property is unique so we customize every pat of every Invisible Fence system, Invisible Fencing addresses one ofthe most common and dificult problems of pet ownership: safe outdoor exercise. Invisible Fencing greatly reduces the ‘hance of a mishap or runaway situation because your pe is professionally tained 0 stay on ‘your property. You can each us at ($05) 268-4007. We are looking forward 10 meeting you and your dogs. - Mary Jo McBean, President.  Tho GRIT Page 12 - December 2003  GARDEN CALENDAR ‘By: Dan Cauditio  EARLY DECEMBER = December i the lent windy, has the highest eativehunsty, receives the most snow and isthe second  ‘oldest moot fhe yar  lbs fred door (Fo olay cole and grace) shouldbe placed in bright, suany window now.  (Coats to ee bs toughen the wi  Select nie melt at safest use oun plats ruse sant.  Polastias are native o Mexico and come i mary colors and varaons. Place na well it ae bat away from any beat source  += Completa your alWintr cleanup prt tbe lida east  Two main pes of ut Christmas tees are Douglas Fir and Noble Fi. Check se if your woe sesh  by grasping a bench and paling along he em. Neodes shoul remain oo the Wee aol ot in your band. ~Usea namie indoor and it wil eliicaeyreserichy noes ud throats.  ‘MID-DECEMBER = Dea’ frp wate utor plants once every to weeks, Water inthe middle ofa lear day. Many plans de for ck of miner water  + Remember ove et your elect hina,  *Deceaber 2s te fist dy of Wier.  Ifyou plas on having living Chrsanas we ths year, place in garage for 1 or 2 days, then indoors for a ‘maxim of 410 $ dys but Keep away ftom heat esters. Selection of living Christnas tet include, ‘Austria Black Pine, Colorado Blve Sproce and Astin Pine.  Cut shcveyees forte holidays. Place cut branches i a bucket of water and place in he garage ‘oil ead ue.  LATE DECEMBER  “Desenber28. Mery Crisis! Plant ving Chrismas tee outdoors. Reeyle ct Chrismas Tree at Rowlands Nursery.  EARLY JANUARY  = January i the coldest month receives second most sow and haste second greatest elaive unity, * Happy New Yeas Day  Us winterzer fiz on c20lyeaion laws.  MIDJANUARY  = Macy Gan Sina give, wat the el ewappr ne ol ates Toes png mer pow on pares odes she Pome “iting yo ips Lop eae domes ete  = Wei your ue sou Cv to wedi ne froon on he wares ay  LATE JANUARY  = Tina peal tine plane your new ring adap.  _Cuttnaces offen, pes) wil, wits, fwerng quince, pres, pe pnch ‘her Pein avn and blooms wil pet 3 weeks “ + ega to pane buted ormamenel eee  ~ Temple so mize op sok,  = yu have a8 odor pond wi a, remeber fo tw St alae gto pn i en to le by ming ee ad ty nein  The GRIT Page? December 2005]  been verified, the complain is assigned to  COVENANT COMPLAINT PROCESS a CSC member. The assigned member will All Sandia Heights residents are legally Visit the site ofthe alleged violation to responsible for abiding by the Covenants, _VeTify is validity. If verified, both the  Ifyou don't have aset ofthe Covenants for Complainant and the violator will be ‘your Unit, they are available on the SHA, _cOmtacted personaly to try to resolve the  Website tarssandabomeswnatscom or issue witout fer CSC action. This te SHA fice Weencourageyouto. _efpoac ar bee scculin the vst Cbein copy andvend hom, When we Mary of itasion since it was aed. compar te mabe of compas teoedwitiheurgesumperofbomes, Te CSC wants to hank or ents who Weare psed' edt te complants SV cooper in eslvng tees we are a very small percentage of the total. brought to their atention, 2s consideration We can conclude that most residents do for our neighbors and familiarity with the ‘want to abide by our Covenants rather than, Covenants is the major key to a pleasant deal with problems created by non- ‘existence with minimal problems in Sanda ‘compliance. Heights. ‘The Covenant Support Committee (CSC) JUNIPER HILL ROAD SPEEDING SHA cosas ofvolumeers, many of Y° Stren Selon ‘en ve se consis on or e+ fed Aarne F's eter in ‘twresolve Covenant violations. So ‘November Little Grit concerning vehicle ‘eines hae bee enable for ‘peed along Jer il Ron ooeen Fesponse to complaints received. The most Coger Hl an Tene Rood. Lege Spent prt of ese uns ae mach tar nas Howe, arteries eh Tomes _ Stagevios este he oben. The  statements by some residents that the  2. A formal complaint must be filed Speed limit bas revently been reduced ftom using the form available from the 25 mph to 15 mph is incorrect. have lived ‘Website or the office. Phone calls, 210 Juniper Hill Rd since 1986. The ‘or "notes" from complainants are speed limit sign in front of my house has tot acted on bythe CSC. en 15 MPH forthe 17 yeas, The el  problem for Ms. Flor and me isthe curve  & Epes torn owe inthe road between lots #10 and #12, The ‘nn Down far more effet ‘curve produces a blind daveway for both Covenant enforcement when the #10 and #12 and a limited vison driveway involved partes have discussed for several other houses. Only yesterday I the problem prior to filing a was almost hit eaving my driveway by a ‘complaint, So, except in rare SUV ing a las 40 mp Last year |  a clocked one of our neighbors at ‘stances, CSC will not investigate Gyer 60 mph afer be almost it me coming  complaints ifthe complainant bss gut of my driveway. I understand the not contacted the alleged violator tendency of people to hurry into or out of  fora resolution. the neighborhood, but we really need 8 ‘way to slow peopie down from bods ‘When the above three conditions have directions going around the blind curve  between #10 and #12 Juniper Hill Rd.  The GRIT Page 8 December 3003  FALUWINTER YARD CLEAN UP By Dax Cantilo  Whats FeX Winer Clean-Up? ‘allaod wicter lan up ivoles twin Woes sheubs and peranils at well a aking and disposing f debs. This 's dove durig he nc growing(domars) season, which rs fom about mid-Ortaber Sroegh AP.  Bench of Fall Winter Clan Up ‘The moe esl om Pll Winer clean wp is ea yard where vesighy ol plas grow is removed. Pie  Sper nen wi ded plat materia sot en albwedw acute ane pope). Macy plants ‘Sai tem tom ing bck od pow. Consalingeacenive lant rot taka towing tent be pen {Ste Becmoc plans we prone ding dome son br ies pln oes. Be Suto avid ring xy Season owering srs fox) a fry, ser, wave tine and etal. The shoudl paved ae {Sey Bloom in pe, bt oer ew Ja  Hove t» Prone Your Plants ‘Whether You dec to perfrm your Jorma season rimming ia mid-October, Jaouary ot wait ul Apel is etre ‘ap to you. You may so deci to rim lesa tine ove the course of be dorm ease Fi, tom perenials ‘bd native grasses ll he way tothe grou. Next year's owt wil emerge Eom the rot and ot rom the sem 5 ‘with shrubs and vines. Do not tim, to he gromd, ny evergreen pereanial sch as candy, pelea! pensemon, \germander etc. Jest remove he old lower tals. Cating perennials and native grasses canbe dove wit a weed exer, Pruning shears or grass shears depending upon the stm thekness and size ofthe area.  ‘Newt wim deciduous oa everrec shaban vines Prine decous shrubs 19 remove last year's ower stalks {ist years rth wan tn encnn. You can may pre te plant a it heavier hi x epecilly te for chamisn snd Rasa mee  Evergreen shrubs ca be ped to shape and vines shoul be frase to shape the plant up ao contol growth ina ese ection. This tm grest ine toe Vines Ona esl fence rset nesses growth. Plane Uke chery sage are considered pores ban ADuquerque tei rowth ha is that of cecidaoa trv. So, tum off old ‘Stowe tals iad of pring ital the way w the ground (as you woud normally do with perennial) as ths will, probably al this plas Most srubvinewimmang cores can be laced wih few gaeden ols sch + lope, ‘Sedge wimmer, band punen ad occasionally abana. He sre yout ous are shar, gud working order and  ‘tn Albuquengue, pruning mot roses occur inthe second week of March othe fest week of Api. This incades a rose ype except climtong ve, wich wil at recive i Sa pruing ofthe Year uot afer the rat bloom May) ‘Rose pruning is sean because roses Alo best ca new growth. Hybrid ta and grndiloa roves ae cul back 10 18, 024 inches talon he main canes and wear canes ae completely removed so hat only 4o6 ofthe sturdiet canes ‘emma Mlonbunla and shrub roses at ummnd sur manne! a You would tus decsous shrubs  [Now let ws discus tee pruning. Be sure to remove dead wood any eran rowing branches of ay excessive growth ‘The dormant ston ican tel tine for beaver pring of tee sth shock’ o them a mimmized. Erergroc eos Inave slower growth period wir but Jo ot yo uly dormant a winter, 20 mit your ring to hgh shaping and ead wood removal. Ii abmay beter trim anbunts ove the years han 10 wat al excessive growth OOS sd doa bean pening.  ‘Las, ak area and pose fal dbs in swash can or tash bags. Ifyou have atk, dspona wil go faster ‘ranches wil not hve att tthe wash cotiner. The loses damp is the Eagle Rock Dump, which you can reach by going west on Paseo del Nore and taking aight on Louisa and thea left ce Eagle Rock. This dump is open ddaysa Wook (Wedneniny Seogh Sunday) and phowe numbers 857381.  (Teeoar Page 13 Desember 2008,  ruse ogy Ww anowanonew = sleeved ‘avd  | war, Vee  SHIA Halloween Party at Futures for Children October 2003  