June 7° 10 AM-Noon  1, Hear reports from Officers and Standing Committees.  2. Elect several new Directors to the Board.  | 3. Vote to ratify the new Bylaws to improv  Board efficiency  |__ 4. Discussion of other new business submitted by members,  We Need Your Input!  Covenaat Support Committee and the Architeetural Control Committee Ihave been working very hard to  ‘often, wording within the covenants hhas been vague, leading to arguments about whether some can be enforced.  Instead of having 37 different sets of be confusing to residents as their next-door neighbor ‘may live in a different Unit with different covenants, we are trying t0 ‘consolidate the covenants as well 0 achieve some uniformity. For the most part, covenants are more strict in more recently developed Units of Sandia Heights as the developers gave ‘greater thought (o protecting property  SANDIA H  'SHITIA has the responsibility of covenant enforcement through t  ACC and CSC, regardless of how they  were written. I's up t0 you, as residents, whether you will support ‘our efforts to simply and enhance this enforcement  Should the covenants be made more restrictive or less restrictive? That's ‘one of the questions our committees are trying to solve. Please help us by completing the questionnaire inserted  in this issue and mailing it back to the  ‘0 give away to a member ofthe S  Wildfower Club. If you'd like some, please call the  SHIA Office at 797-7793 and leave your with the staf  ~ ~~“AdVertisements don’t represent an endorsement by SHHA or its officers: _ SHHA receives 3 oF more  MAX M. SANCHEZ, JR.  RESIDENT / NEIGHBOR No one sells more real estate in Sandia Heights!  THE BEST AGENT THE BEST MARKETING  + Assoclatg Broker, MBA, CRS ‘+ Nationwide Company Recognition +18 Veils Resident Expert in Sandia Mes ¢ Pull Color Weleome Home Magazine > pixchidiencration Albuquerque Native. # Television Home Show on KOAT Channel 7 + Bsyeag of ouctanding Serie Vital Home Tour  7 -# Local & National Wel Site Exposure  otc Elegy nd a nT Conciente  u vhs Se ribsiquerspe  Sling (e) aor ‘Bien, Mur Ante ep re Ot  hana Peer — CUMOMETS erate Pater  SHARON & JUDSON McCO)  are dedicated to providing oustanding real estate  service 10 the mort important person inthe work Pyou!  © Nombre Serve & Se sae 1979 sn mapranan meat of pony ond  Along flied sels nr ewert ner ar und mat Wa  centr or hat te bere  ‘© Ofiering our Seller » Fa Serie, Comprehensive 4 gates tae Maing Pla”  Fal Line of Tobacco Producte » Tax Free venient Drive- Up Window Houre 9 am - 5:30 pm  (Tie tiie a a SANDIA HEIGHTS COVENANT SURVEY  ‘Sandia Heights was conceived more than 30 years ago by Robert Nordhaus and Bea ‘Abruzzo (the famous balloonist who crossed the Atlantic), Their dream was to create a ‘cornmunity that had minimal impact on wildife, native vegetation and the precious water supply. This unique community quickly became one of the most desirable areas in which to live. Residents wished to preserve the Height’s character, so in 197S the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association was created to protect residents’ interests.  Each of the 37 Units has diferent legal covenants that were intended to help reserve property values, improve the quality ofife and minimize disputes among neighbors Without effective covenants, Sandia Heights could become a target of those who do not share the spirt oF appreciate the nature ofthis special place where we are fortunate = = =~ enough olive. The Board of Directors believes thatthe time has come toconsider updating Unit covenants.  Covenant revisions a big undertaking. Residents’ help and input are critical in this endeavor. A Covenant Review Committee (CRC) has been established to gather information from residents and to assess options for improving and consolidating covenants. The CRC seeks your opinions, concerns and ideas. Later, iit appears the revisions are desirable and feasible, referenda wil be held  “This survey is being mailed to all SHIVA residents Please detach this survey, fod ito eavelope size lon the dated ins and mali othe SHIA ofce before May Responses shuld be anonymous (do not sign your name),  SHA 2-B San Rafael Ave NE Albuquerque, NM 87122 {In which Unit do you live (Unit number or your street) 2 How familiar are you with your Unit's covenants? Quite familiar  = Aware of them but not in detail,  Not familiar at all  — Didn't know they existed!  (or a copy visit the SHHA Office or website www sandiahomeowners.org)  Do you fee! any recent changes in architecture or landscaping near you have:  Enhanced your property value _Enhanced your quality of life = Diminished your property vahue ___ Diminished your quality of life Had no real effect  Example  ‘lave you ever used your covenants to try to resolve an issue?__ Yes _No, AFYes, were the covenants useful? Yes __No ‘Comments:  From what you know of the covenants, which of the following best represents your views?  They ae fine a is  = They need 10 be clarified  They need to be more restrictive  They should be relaxed  ‘What covenant restrictions are most valuable to you?”  ‘Do you think your covenants are being adequately enforced? __Yes _No Comments  Pease share any recommendations for changes:  Please contact us if you would be willing to read and comment on drafts of Proposed changes Wine Tasting on March 29" ‘By Mona Lee Schilling  (Our Wine Tasting and Silent Auction was a huge success according to all reports. One hundred seventy-six tickets were sold and we generated a profit of 31,177.03. It was $o enjoyable that many residents suggested that we have two annual wine tasting events each year,  and our Committee (Membership Services) is considering a second one in ‘October, perhaps held both inside and ‘outside. Sounds lke fun, doesn’t it?  A big bouquet of “Thank You's” goes to Chuck MeLeod, Membership Services ‘Committee Chairman, fo his tireless efforts in making this event so successful A special thanks goes 10 Rick Nelson, who helped in many ways to ensure success even though he was not even a Committee member. Other Committee members with special tasks included Ruth Prazier (those lovely floral centerpieces that graced the  tables), Larry Greer (arranging forthe 4elightful marimba musicians), Ralph Rudolph (iaison with the wine/beer suppliers), Mona Lee Sehiling and Heinz Schmitt.  Not to be forgotten are the wonderful people (including National Distributing) who donated many different items to the Silent Auction, ‘making it a huge success. Many people as well deserve special thanks for the {ons of delicious appetizers they brought You know wo you are and you did treat! It was suggested that with all the obvious culinary talent displayed, we should consider producing a cookbook!  Future plans are being discussed about moving the Spring wine-tstng in late April instead of March, at which time the weather should permit use of the outdoor patio, allowing folks to spread ut a bit more.  A checking of old records has shown thatthe Membership Services ‘Committee wsed to also organize & Spring Fling Pine in June folowing the ‘Annual Mesting, We are considering having another Picnic time, date and location to be announced, but it will ‘probably be around August or September. It wil feature the usual hot gs and hamburgers, and various games and activites for kidsrandkids We are looking fora suitable park in which to have it and welcome any recommendations. Stay tuned for more information, and check the website! SHHA BOARD CANDIDATE/APPLICANT UPDATE By Jack Wolfe  ‘The last two Grit publications contained detailed aticles conveying the need and desire {for Board applicants to fill forthcoming vacancies on the Board. To date, the response ‘has been far, but remarkably slim from those Districts not curently represented on the Board as well as those which will be unrepresented after June of this year  Districts from which representation is needed and the number of candidates still needed ‘er District is noted below.  DISTRICT ENCOMPASSED UNITS CANDIDATES NEEDED Sandia 0,1, 2, &3 North 2 Road Runner 5.86 South 1 Quail 16, 19 & 20 South 2 Bear 26,27, & 28 1  tis the desir ofthe Board to have one and two representatives from each District within Sandia Heights so that we have a Board consisting of 24 Directors with representation from all Districts. This number provides suficient resources for the tain of ‘committees and performance of assigned Functions and responsibilities Of cours, if there ae insufiient applicants from the appropriate Districts, the Board has no choice but to consider applicants from other Districts and to place their names on te ballot so a8 to.ensue the strength of the Board is maintained  At this point we have confirmation of seven candidates whose names will be entered on the ballot for this year’s general election. We also have five individuals who have indicated an interest in being on the ballot, but who have not confirmed such at this time. t's important note that ofthese 12 candidates, none are from the four Districts noted above. Thus, we also continue to seek candidates from these four Districts  Again, the Nomination Committee requests that any and all who ae interested in serving ‘on the SHIA Board as a Director contact the SHELA office at 797-7793 for details and also to obtain a suggested format for composition of a short resume. The office staff can ‘also direct any questions one may have to members ofthe Nomination Committee.  PLEASE! Before the June 7 Board Meeting, please read the proposed new Bylaws _tvailable atthe SHHA Office or on the web site, We realy need these for the Board to operate more efficiently. Our last official Bylaws update was in 1996 and our Bylaws Committee has found alt of problems with them. We belive thatthe new version will be very beneficial ‘Cedar Hill Park design to be presented for final comment  ‘There will be a meeting forall Residents of Sandia Heights at the Sheriff Sibrava station (NE corner of Paseo del Norte and Eubank) at 6:30 PM on May 20" to update everyone on the park plans. Please attend if you care about the park.  ‘The Bernalillo County Parks and Recreation Department has planned a meeting to solicit comments on the preliminary desig of Cedar Hill Park. The SHHA donated $19,000 to the construction ofthe park, so member feedback is especially desired. The Parks and New Development Comanitice has prepared the attached survey form in order to gather ‘member comments and will use them 10 make final recommendations to the County. We have compile list ofthe ten attributes that received the most attention by residents at the March 10 meeting, Please attend the upcoming meeting and then fill out the attached survey with your opinion on how well the preliminary design satisfies your vision ofthe park with respect to each ofthese attributes. Ths information wil also help us plan for future parks and community areas in Sandia Heights. Please mail or deliver this form (no ‘photocopies) tothe SHHA. One per member household, please  1. Grass area - (open space for informal activities ice kite flying, playing catch, tossing Frisbees, ete.) With regard to this attribute, the preliminary design call for:  ‘Too much ‘About right Not enough____or May be a problem  2. Undeveloped area - (vegetation left in its natural state)  ‘Toomuch About right____ Not enough __or May be a problem  3. Trails -inclading running path, pedestrian acess trai, perimeter trail)  Too much ‘About right Not enough "or May be a problem __ 4. Formal game elds or ball courts ~ (eg. soccer field, basketball, bocce, volleyball)  Too mach ___ About right ‘Not enough or May be a problem 5. Shade res and/or shade structure  Too much About right____Not enough_or May be a problem 6 Skating trailor skateboard area  Too much About right Not enough__or May be a problem 7. Picnic tables and park benches,  Toomuch About rght_Not enough _or May bea problem —__ 8. Art (eg sculpture, sun calendar)  Too much ‘About right Not enough__or May be a problem 9. Cultivated xeriseape ~ area or garden (or nature walk).  Too mach About right Not enough __o May bea problem 10, Playground equipment - adequate for small children  Too much ___ Aout right Not enough _or May bea problem  11, Additional comments (eg, colors, equipment, & manmade objets tomy liking)? 4  + Little Cloud Park maintenance and cleanup By Mark Boslough & George Connor  ‘Your Parks committee has been working on things residents told us needed to be taken care of in Little Cloud Park, We purchased seed pre-emergent Herbicide granules and County parks personnel spread and watered it in over the grassy area in an effort to stop germination of GoatHlead seeds. This particular Herbicide will also stop grass seed. germination, so we have arranged with county parks personnel 10 overseed the grassy area again in August. Additionally, we put fertilizer spikes around the trees in hopes that the feilizer and regular watering by the county between March and November will keep the shade trees growing and healthy, some of which SHEA purchased and planted a year ago.  We welcome and appreciate your comments on how make our parks more atractive and enjoyable, Ifyou see a Goatflead plant growing, please take a second and pull it up! That's the most effective solution!  Addi  nal Comments on Survey on reverse sid  Please add any commer  pro or con here: Referral Service + License, Insured Controcors and Handyman + Honest, Accurate ob Pices. Guorantead Work  Towards ef oteted Ontoment Pd Call 275-2758  www hands com  HANDIWORK: 3%  GGasvhucuan o) Eouiran REALTORS NS]  ED COHEN  a  Thomas Smidt Il  Tax, Estate & Business Law, NALLC ‘4117 Monegomery Bie NE “Abquerque, NM 87109  CONFUSING OPTIONS?  (50s}292-4858, ACES  Personal Care Serviees, LLC  117 Mea ied NE Sete, Ape  (Tie Lite Gait  complaints  ent an endorsement by SHHA orits officers ] zbout an adverisr the ad willbe stopped  Ladies and frre 7  Dref erre  Heating & Cooling "Your Profered Contactar”  GE Financial Assurance  Reb Pipe nw eno Long Too Car Speci  £6 Blk Boar Lon Auge, NM 8722 General Elect Capta Assurance Company  MRA ees  THE LITTLE GRIT  = aT avert]  sareeacmuerr ane  nd  vw anowanonerw teres te  subs ume : onery mane ee ‘ove  ‘als Galwoszud WD VT OWL  Some things the SHHA Board is concerned about  Speeding Fire Protection £&  Oppose Commercial Development 4 ¢  Parks  Improved Security egal access to Mountain Trails  Protect your views  Covenants  sit  And much much  se let us know your 