74  SANDIA GRIT  "NEWS OF SANDIA HEIGHTS"  September &, 1979  wetcon  During the last 3 monthe there have been a number of new families who have moved in and we wish to welcome then. ‘ve hope that you will join with the rest of your neighbors to make this a great place to lives You are encourared to join the Honeowners Association and to get involved. ¥e are always looking for new leaders!  SCHOOL DAYS =  LOREN  The school season has started azain and we want to renind residents, young and old to DRIVE SLO’, Live Oak R4, Juniper Hill, Tramway Lane are all school zones with several children waiting for buses along the way. PLEASE WATCH FOR TH3i!, SLOW DOWif.  DOGS & HOTORCYCLES  According to my observations the dogs have been sticking close to hone. The people of Sandia Hts appreciate not having their garbage ripped open every day.  After school the children are playing or riding their bikes in the streets, please remenber this when you are driving hone after work. DRIVE SLOW.  Again we would like to remind parents who let their children ride motor- bikes around the area to tell then to slow down, and review the safety rules.  GUARD REPORT  The city and county police 4  s with the assistance of the security partol arrested 4 juveniles in the past 2 weeks. These juveniles were involved in break and entry burglaries over the last 6 months. They admitted responsibility to about 50 incidences throughout the city and countye  formation received from an alert resident allowed security to investigate to subjects by tracing their license nuaber. The result was & arrests, recovery of property and their admission to many illegal entries and thefts. All were not remidents of Sandia Hts.  Calling security for suspicious persons or vehicles is not only appreciated but also a tremendous help. At present security is on 74 hours a week and these hours are directed to prine tines when the sajority of residents are not at hone. Days, John Laben (Bullet) Nights, Paul Deitz Thomas Richardson  Next deadline for GRIT is December 20, 1979. Please write articles out and deliver or mail to 455 Live Oak 24. NE before deadline,  ‘SWIM TEAM NEWS z  ndia ite Swin Team had its most successful season yet! Livy Parsons Senched the 75 reser sean fo victories over Faradioe ills, Sierra Vista Sgst and Sierra Vista West-2 team in dual neetey and. to an Sth place tean standing out of eleven teana at the Sundance Leagve City Championship  the  The awinners and parents continued the tradition of positive and enthus Support, not only in their svineings efforts, team spirit, but hard work. Now starting blocks, backstroke flaxs, kickboard a starting gun, as well aa recognition wifte for’ coach and the nusnore purchases  Rain didn't dampen the spirits or turnout of the families in the Awards Pot Luck (a spectal thanks to the sen at the fire station for coming through on such short notice.) Individual recognition was given {o"those swinrers who qualified in the City Championships aa well  those who participated on the tean this sumer. A special thanks wa xiven to Livy for hia outetanding coaching efforts [Livy hav been asked to Feturn for next season) +  Special thanks go to all those “behind the scenes" board members, to fir. Johnson for all his work on the starting blocks (Bil) Schlenzio too),  Lewtons for the backstroke flags: t> io Zour Seasons Club for lettit use the pool, and to Inez Mortley for all those delicious baked goods the hone neots.  A very yery special thank you to each and every swinner for participating, Soars Tooking forward vo next sunmera awin season, have & good wintert  STABLES CHANGING A LOT NORE THAN ITS NAME  Tramway Stables, forgerly Sundin Peak Stable, ie undergoing a change in ownership, managenent, and the n Ba totally new" phitovoph: ting an atsosphere at the stabie which is a wholesone and fun place for the entire fanily as well as providing many new party and entertaining ideas for residents. Well planned breakfast rides, hanburger rides and cookout! and fall hey rides will provide residents with unique entervaini opportunities appropriate to the uniqueness of Sandia Heights  ‘The stable provides horse rental and excellent informal riding lesson Woon tfFort. in being expended to upsrade and inprove the quality of the Doarding facilities avaliable for horse owners.  ‘The new owners are very eager to provide satisfactory servici  residents and urge residents to try out the new services and party  opportunities during the upconing beautiful fall season. With State  Fair approaching, why not try out those new western outfits on a real ive horse!  to  SEPTIC TAIKS by Ben Abruzzo  gard to your septic tank systen will pay handsome dividends to you in the form gf dollars saved in not having to replace your drainage fisié and the incoventence caused by the back-up and overriow of the syates  th  Arthoush, theoretically, a indefinitely: tn penceioe eh a  tank and drain field should function dom works out due to non=digestible substances that go into the system. Unless very careful attention 19, given to not allowing any food scraps, grease and other substances to enter the syste, sludge will build up which, over a period of tine, will  carried by the effluent into the drainage field eausing the drain field to lone ite porosity and thereby necessitating replacomont.  I have found that by following certain rules you can insure continued fron your existing syster. These rules ave basically as foliowss  2+ Allow little or no grease into the syste: 2. Allow only a minimum of raw food and food scrape into the systems 2: Use Biodegradable soaps and detergents + Check your septic tank at least every 6 months to determine the amount Sf Studer in the tank. The sludge on the botton is isportant, since it robs ‘the tank of operating efficiency as it reduces the amount of  SEPTIC TANKS - continued  water that can be held at any given tise, The sludge on the surface, if  excessive will break down and flow with the effiuent into the drain field  Blocking the feis over'a period of tie,  Se A regular pusping schedule will ensure that clear effluent is going fo the drain Field ant should preclude any problens.  In summary - reasonable attention to your system will allow the syster to function properly and should allow for an indefinite life of the drain field.  ANNOUNCEMENTS, WANT ADS, LOST & FOUXD  I would like to inform the residents of Sandia Hts that they now have a wary Kay Beauty Consultant living in this area, If you are not now using  ary Kay, let ne tell you how you nay receive your products free. Also. for @ complimentary skin analysis and facial, please call Jo Cardamone 299=2507.  Attention mothers, part tine working, teaching, etc. Sandia Hts nother interested in sitting during school hours in ay hone, Call 294-7332.  ORGANIZIER needed to co-ordinate car pools in Sandia Hts, interested, call Bard White at 292-1791.  BABYSITTING, call Stephanie Lubow, 14 yrs old, 299-2364  BABYSITTING, call Racquel Rede, 14 yrs old, 293-5272  MANTED, looking for soneone in Sandia Hts to do part-time typing and office rk in private hone, Secretarial experience necessary, if interested, call 293-2880,  CLEAN WINDOWS, Danny's Window Cleaning Co. free estinates, call 883-3651,  cognition mugs may be pleked up at lira. Nortieya after Aug 25, #3 Sandia Hts Drive. Team Teshirts can be purchased fron ira, tiortley toot  Anyone wishing to serve on the new Sandia Hts. Swim Team Board, contact Naney Rose 294-2782,  LOST: June 16, Man's wrist watch with turquoise band, probably on Red Oaks or Tramway Lane, Keepsake, Reward, call 299-7925.  LOST: a seal point sianese cat, part of our family, reward, call 293-2893.  Dione Brewer ond Judy Hors  Corctolly invite you ang your friends 1o  THE CATS MEOW! FIRST ANNIVERSARY SHOW  Mondday, Sept. 17 40om-8 pm  318 Big How Rg 2000 NE ABUQUIG, Na B72  FEATURING, Hondpainied neectepont convasies and Poter- avon Yams ol recscnable pres  (Chrisrros sockngs ond omoments, plows ond pe wes, purses ond dco bam. checkbook covers yoo cose hy ergs Ce Bune iy tae eeclenort We alo Go custom deBgrs. Bockng  We cre ciways pen between shows by oppont. ‘meant - Col 299-8803 or 296-0308  {aon Monger am on haan 2 aco ost ert tape. Sati or To Nom age 398th on ih Serre 