1999  ry  AN Di GR  NEWS OF SANDIA HEIGHTS"  may 6, 1979 NOTES PROM SANDIA PEAK  Becauge of the excellent support by residents, Sandia Heights Security Patrol will expand its hours to approximately 65 hours per week on a varing achedule with emphasis on weekend nights. Sandia Peak encourages your continued support in order that the service can continue to expand and improve, .  ‘The ballfield/playground area has been closed to all motorized traffic, (cars, trucks, motorcycles, etc) in order to provide a safer area for the children to play. Your cooperation {a appreciated.  ‘Trasway Blvd. south of the 4 a4 ghe County ciains it is a priority tten on the 1979/1980 maintenance budget. You can help assure this and possibly influence an earlier date for r surfacing and striping the road by writing or calling Juan Vigil, County Nanagers Robert Hawk, County Connission Chairman: or Ray Simmons’ our areas County Commissioner ~ or all three. Let then hear from you, it is worth the effort. Mailing address: County Managers Office, 620 Lonas Blvd. NeW. Albuquerque, New Mexico 87102,  Bob Murphy, Sandia Peak  HOMEOWNERS ANNUAL MEETING  The Sandia Heights Homeowners Association will hold the Annual Meeting at 10_AM, May 12, 1079. The Saturday morning meeting will be held at the Fire tation. % Board of Directors meeting will be held inmediately preceding  the annual meeting. Thore'll be two seats available on the board which will be filled by election at the meeting by a majority attending. The natters  to be discussed are the annual soliciation for contributions and the playgrounc EVERYONE JS INVITED! Let's see a 99% turnout. This is your homeowners group.  Don Letherer, President  SANDIA HETGHTS ANNUAL CLEAN-UP DAY  MAY 12th == Look out tumbleweedetttt ANNUAL SOLICITATION FOR HOMEOWNERS  You will receive a request for voluntary dues to the Homeowners Association shortly. If enough member's contritute, we'll be able to put erass and a watering systen on the playground. When you receive ny letter, please respond. We need your help.  Don Latherer, President, Homeowners Association  SWIMMERS UP = ‘TAKE YOUR MARKS = — Gorttttt  In leas than a month, the Sandia Heights Swin tean will be off and kicking? We've ordered sone beautiful new suits from Gardenswartz (sone are already in) & ouper new coach is anxious to get started during the first week in June (Read about him below). If you're not 18 by June 1, and if you're not AAU sanctioned as of January 1, 1979 you can be on our team. Ali that is re- quired is mininal swinming ability, if you just swin a iittle, you'll amaze yourself af how a teanful of encouragement 111 help you inproves 0°22 ractice every morning and have lots of meets with other clubs in the  fandance Swi Association, sone at our club, others at theiras The *18.00 for the first fanily menber and #16.00 for each fanily member Please return the fore tor Inez Nortley (299-7840) 3 Sandia Hts Dr. Ne oF Kathy Reidy (294-6422) 14 Sandia Hts Dr. NE.  OUR NEW COACH  LIVY_PARSONS  Livy is the most qualified young man in Albuquerqui rave about his love and respect for little children and how they return his had a host of qualified applicants to interview and feel  very lucky to have signed Livy. Here are sone of his swinming credentials:  Asst. swim coach - Sierra Vista Swim & Tennis Club ~ 2 yrs,  Full-time life guard - Sierra Vista - 2 yrs  Full-time life cuard - Albuquerque Country Club - 2 yrs.  Pool and club maintenance man - both clubs  Member of Sundance League, since its inception  Reigning 50 yard Butterfly champ  Reigning 50 yard Backstroke champ  Wolds many other swimming awards  Jr & sr lifesaving certificates  WSI, Red Cross Safety and First Ald Course  Forner menbor of the Albuquerque ‘Academy Swim Team  Current member of Princeton University water polo t  People’ who know him  Livy is a sophomore at Princeton where he also volunteers every week to be a Ble Brother to boys in the area without father. Sy the firat week in June he*ll be ready to start a really fun and exciting season Don*t mina out tt  Next deadline for GRIT is August 15, 1979. Ple and deliver or mail to 55 Live Oak'Rd. NE befor  write all articles out deadline.  With the warm weather here again, please DRIVE SLOW and  teh out for the children in the streota playing '- Avoid a tragedy.  THANKS AND APPRECIATION ‘Thank you for a money contribution to the GRIT from Howard & Lois Dittmer,  A special thanks to Lois Parton, Mary Ann Reed and Priscella McKinley for helping deliver the last 4 the GRIT.  ANNOUNCEMENTS, ADVERTISEMENTS  Rocky Bradley II, son of Charlotte Bradley won the 1st place Junior Single: in the New Mexico State Junior Bowling Championships held at Leisure Sow: Kym Bradley finished firth in the girls open dividion of the All-American Youth Bowling Championships held at Fiesta Lanes,  My name ig Beth Hendricks and I an 12 years old. I would like to take this orvunity. £0 ask the people of Sandia lisichts about taking care of their ehtirens puaneas yander of fetay while, you are ove of tom ot enenavars ‘n sorry, but T will pot take care of Big dors. ty addreae and phone, number  are 1088 framay Ens 2823966. “Thank yous »  Babysitting, Yvonne Lubow, 13 years old - call 299-2364  For sale, Bicycle for sale, 3 speed girls Schwinn red, like new #60.00 call 29922364  Going on vacation? I will housesit your home, plants, and pets for any period of time this summer. Call Pan Ernst at 299-8558, References available,  der helent, 22 1bs, young,  Found: female dog, white/beiee, 15° shi 296-3009  ‘trained, long tail, held for several we  SWIM TEAM REGISTRATION FORM  AME, BIRTH DATE, NAME, BIRTH DATE. PHONE 4, ADDRESS,  AMOUNT ENCLOSED,  