THE  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SPRING - 1998  LIGHT ORDINANCE UPDATE:  By Frank C. Sandoval  - Bernalillo County Zoning Administrator  Many residents of Bemalillo County  are growing up unable to gaze at the stars  their grandparents knew so well. This is true  not only in cities, but also in rural areas  where new developments sometimes. bring  along many Uiban growth problems, "Light  pollution," perhaps the most visible, should  not be the price of progress.  Reducing light pollution is not diffi- cult. It's fairly painless if you use efficient  outdoor lighting fixtures, like those equipped  with "light and motion sensors" or "auto- matic timing devices." Shielding (Cutoff)  light fixtures can minimize light glare spilling  onto adjacent property when ilie they are  installed or mounted at a height of no more  than 16 ft. above grade. Indlvidual home- owners can help reduce light pollution by  using night lighting only when necessary,  choosing well-shielded outdoor light fixtures  and turning lights off when not needed.  How can you tell when outdoor fixtures are  creating light pollution? VLSual discomfort  may occur when the glare from a light  source is too bright, inadequately shielded,  or the lamp (bulD) exceeds 75 watts. Note:  the ordinaJy porch light fixture is not affect- ed by the new ordinance.  Should your outdoor fixture be identi- fied as one creating light pollution or causing  visual discomfort for adjacent property own- ers, you will be advised to remove or convert  the fixture to conform with new residential  use parameters within five (5) years.  Unlike ·other ordinances the "Light  Pollution Ordinance" ~ves us a unique mis- sion - striving to be kept in the dark. Still  have questions? Contact Frank sandoval,  Zoning Administrator, at 924-3700.  and  Spring is in the Air  Ifs Time to Ge  Board  By Marshall Aungier - SHHA President  I am pleased to report that Mr. Bill  Roberts, owner of the Klcks 66 on Ttamway  Boulevard, has offered to make changes in  the lighting at the new convenience store/gas  station after learning that the lighting was  offensive to Sandia Heights residents. See  Bernalillo County Commissioner Barbara  Seward's Report on page 4 of The Grit for  more on this issue.  Word from Bernalillo County is that they  are waiting for submittal of an acceptable  drainage plan and revised plat from the  developers of the Cedar Hills SUbdivision,  planned for the southeast comer of Ttamway  Board members shared some Christmas cheer  at the home of SHHA President Marshall  Aungier. (l-r) lester libo, Rob Loughridge,  George & Bonnie Hight, Yvonne & Jim Wise,  Irene Middleton and Ruth Friesen.  Boulevard and Cedar Hill. Once these are  submitted and undergo required review by  governmental departments, notice will be  given of a public hearing by the County  Planning Commission. SHHA will stay  informed on this issue.  The Archil:ecturaJ Control Committee ha.5  given approval of the preliminary site plat  submitted for the proposed day spa at the  northeast comer of San Rafael and Tuunway  Boulevard and is awaiting final plans for  their review.  The ACX is gearing up for what promises  to be a busy sprin~. Remember to submit  any proposed exterior projects to this com- mittee for review and allow 30 days for a  response. The covenants stipulate that this  applies not only  to additions, fences  and decks, but also  to any re-stuccoing,  re-roofing, patios or  sheds - in short all  exterior work.  The SHHA  Annual Meeting Is  coming up in early  June and elections  Marshall Aungier  will be held to  replace expiring board positions at that  time. Members with interests in architectural  control, road and safety issues, enforcement  of covenants or governmental issues are  invited to consider lending your talents to the  Board. Please call the SHHA office at  296-1412 or any rurrent board member  if you are interested in being on the  Board. Look for more info in the May Grit.  The Covenant Support Conunittee con- tinues to work for compliance with the  covenants in each of our 30 plus Units.  No simple task! We owe a big thanks to  Ruth Friesen, Chair of this Committee for  time-consuming effort in scanning in all of  the covenants so that they may be accessed  through SHHA's Homepage on the Internet - http://www.nmia.com/shha  Other committees have been working  with Bernalillo County on developing  drainage infrastructure and the establishment  of guidelines for future development in  Sandia Heights and North Albuquerque  Acres, as weU as working with Sandia Peak  Tram Company to reduce the noise level  emanating from the pumping station south  ofTtamway Road.  The Contractor Evaluation Program  continues to be a service that is frequently  utilized and appreciated by SHHA members.  If you need information on a contractor or  service provider, chances are the SHHA office  has evaluation forms submitted by one of  your Sandia Heights neighbors for the area  of expertise you need. Our fLles contain  references on plumbers, electricians, roofer,  stucco companies, window cleaners, tile  installers, concrete and asphalt companies  and general remodeling.  Call the SHHA office at 296-1412 to get  the scoop or need blank evaluation forms.  We are especially in need of information on  yard workers and house cleaners! Any  teenagers who are interested in doing yard  work are encouraged to call the office to get  your name on a list to be given out to other  residents who would like your help  during the spring and summer.  .  THE GRIT  THE  THE GRIT  is published quarterly  as the official newsletter of the  SANDIA HEIGHTS  HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  P.O.Box 20021  Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021  Phone: 505-296-1412  .  Fax: 505-296-2620  Homepage: http://www.nmia.coov'shha  BOARD of DIRECTORS  Marshall Aungier  President  Claire Wilcox  \/Ice President  Ruth Friesen  Secretary  Rob Loughridge  Treasurer  Erin Frinkman  Administrative Assistant  Don Aunapu  Bob Brown  Jon Cashwell  Chris Harmon  < George Hight  Don 'Hooper  Weldon Johnson  John Keller  lester Libo  Irene Middleton  Debbie Miller  Jim Neely  Nancy Norem  Charles Pechewlys  Margo Roberts  Baroara Rosnagle  Jonathan Sulin  ~r-'t.J..h~~-.....  James Wise  EDITOR  Carolyn Hinde\  Call: 505-856-1868 Fax 505-856-1792  Write: The 6rit, do Hindel Inc.  1124 Marigold NE, ABQ, NM 87122  PRINTED BY  lntermountain Color  on recycled paper  Wednesdo!J. March 18th  OPEN HOUSE & TOUR  Judith & Paul Terry  368 Big Horn Ridge Road  797-1388  10am - Noon  Please coll 856-6282  if you would like lo hos! one of the  new seosonol SHHA Coffees!  A  UARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  By Ruth Friesen - SHHA Secretary  In the last three months the Board has been working on:  • County Lighting Ordinance  • Isffiles with Kicks 66 llghting  • Fence construction issues  • Noise from Sandia Peak Services pump  • Sign repair for Los Altos de Sandias  • Architectural control in Unit 8C  • Drainage plan for North Albuquerque Acres and Sandia Heights  • Realtor sign prollf eration  • Covenants issues including  RVs, fencing, landscaping,  unscreened air-conditioners,  commercial enterprises  Want to know what's going on?  If you would like to know what's going on  ft:JsHHA)  BO{I  MEETINGS  in our zmJque wmmunity, aU residents are  welccme to attend the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association board meetings  held the second Wedrresdqy ef every month - 7 PM at the Fire St.ation on Paseo de/ Norte.  ENJOY THE SUN!!  GET YOUR WINDOWS DONE!  Professional, Scandinavian Window Cleaning Co  Servin; the ABO area with excellence.  Up to 15 windows inside and out..  Each addiuonal window.. .  Secumy bars add per window ..  Stonn windows slightly higher.  Call 292-8540  yours truly  Henrik Wils, owner  I guarantee a job well done and  ,  service beyond your expectations!  • Relldentlal Cleanings  • Mov•lnl/Move-outs  • Spring Yard Clean·Up&  • Reasonable RatH  APR.BTU  MAY.13lff  BMC ROOF MAINTENANCE  BMC  ROOF MAINTENANCE  •PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE  •RESTORATION  •REPAIR  •MAINTENANCE CONTRACTS  • COMPLETE REPLACEMENT  FREE INSPECTION  897-3766  FAX 897-6868  LICENSED AND BONDED  Organizing Solutions  a 1111111111111111111 a  - WANT MORE SPACE - - - for your Home and Business - IN YOUR OWN HOUSE? - You 're going to love the results.™ - WHY NOT STOKE YOUR -·  - - - EXTRA STUFF!  - 009  - - - Come by your neighborhood - - - O"!*IC!nO'~JY$!9ml  - BEAR CANYON - Msnblw. Naticr.alAuociationof Proles..an.i~ - SELF STORAGE - - - 856-3667  - 4730TRAMWAY, NE - - (Just North of Montgomery - - - - Next to Giant&. Sm ith's) - Call for infonnation and a special SH discount - - on a new book by SH resident Ktt Anderson: - 292-2300 - - - File Anything in Your Home - We also have  - - BOXES.BOXES, BOXES! - ... And Find It Again! - - a1111111111111111111a  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SPRING - 1998  R@UNDHOUSE REP@RT  1his Year~ Legislative Session:  Windows '98 - With a Few Bugs  Many observers and participants of the 1998 Legislative  Ses.sion are calling it "Wmdows '98." The push to dose drtve-up  liquor windows or provide a local option to do so grabbed the pub- lic's attention like no other i.ssue thi5 year. Addressing the embarrass- ing fact that New Mexico ha.s the highest drunk-<lriving fatality rate,  many variations of ler)slaOOit to dose these window were debated in  both the State House of ReP,resentatives and State Senate.  Unfortunately, the issue remains"unresoived. as no final bill passed  both legislative chainbeis to reach the Governor for consideration.  ~  · e sessions in even-numbered years are only 30  days Jong."'!lrne is short: so while the drive-llp' liquor window debate  raged, precious time was norspenron the other important state mat- ters and issues; Drinking and driving is a priority of the highest level.  however. not enough time was devoted~ the State's Annual Budget,  which is traditionally the forus of 30 day legislative sessions. Thus  the budget that passed the House and Senate thi5 year ha.s some seri- ous "bu~;,· as Miaosoft entrepreneur Bill Gates would  it.  Crime  You've asked us for more police officers to patrOl the state  highways and we've delivered. Governor Gary Johnson signed into  law ler)slation ~  New Mexico's State Poore funding to hire so  more officers thi5 year and 40 more officers for each of the next three  years. The $13 million package will also five our hard-working and  tmderpaid peace officers a 20% pay raise.  Education Reform  Budget Woes  The Democrat-controlled legislature stalled and defeated  many popular and badly needed educational reforms, including  Charter School expansion. We did manage to pass open enrollment  legislation, making it easier for students to enroll in school outside  their districts. But for the most part. we've cxmtinued to throw more  and more money at a school system that fails to educate and prepare  our children to compete in the growing global rnarl<et - a school sys- tem that remains unaccountable to the citizens of the state.  Foro.mately, thi5 year's spending increases will go where they belong  ----~"into the clas&ooms. Regular teachers will receive a 9% pay raise  and $4 .5 million for teacher training programs.  The $3.1Z billion ler)slative budget exceeds the state's pro- jected re~ues and can run the state into debt. Governar Gary  Johnson indicated that the new budget "overspends and is unaccept- able." Fiscal responsibility towards the star.e's checkbook is a ~  we  owe to our children and grandchildren.  Another "bug" in the budget is the shortfall in spending for  the Department of Corrections and the Department of Public Safety.  Cruciaf investigatory positions, such as a DNA expert's job were  unfunded and will expire if the budget =·  unfettered. All indi- cations point toward Governor Johnson  · the lawmakeis back to  Santa Fe sometime before the end of the  year, which is June 30,  for a Special Ses.sion of the Legislature to untangle the budget mess  and give it another shot  The flawed budget arid unresolved drive-up liquor ban were  not the only issues addressed thi5 year. Out of approximately 900  bills introduced, 144 were passed and sent to the Governor for him to  sign or veto. There were some dramatic legislative highlights rey,ard- ing welfare reform, tax cuts, crime prevention. education reform.  highway improvement and gaming oversight.  Welfare Reform  The ler)slature passed and Governor Johnson signed welfare  reform into law. The long--0verdue, conunon-sense approach requires  that everyone who can work will work. The plan calls for welfare  recipients to work, either at a paying job or in community service, or  to go to school in exchange for benefits. Welfare recipients and the  ·working poor" are also eligible for child care, job training and trans- portation. There is a five year limit of benefits in a lifetime.  New Mexico is finally in line with the federal mandates for  welfare reform.  Tax Relief  The overburdened taxpayers of New Mexico finally will  benefit from some tax cutting measures. Led by the Governor  himself, over $60 million a year in tax relief packages are now await- ing his signature. Among them are:  1. lifting the gross receipts tax on health care.  2. Lowering the unemployment compensation charges  paid by businesses.  3. El.iminating the state tax on presatption drug sales.  4. Extending tax relief to the elderly, working poor and  high Income New Mexicans.  Highway lqlprovements  The highways in N  Mexico rate aroong the most danger- ous in the countzy. Compotinding the problem is the fact that our  dilapidated roads are discouraging new and relocating businesses  from settling here. Saving lives, encouraging economic development  and servicing the state's infrastructure are the motivating factors  behind legislation allowing the Highway and Transportation  Department to issue bonds for nearly $1.3 billion in road projects.  A combination of federal and state funds will pay  for road repair on the state's most heavily traveled  conidors In Albuquerque, Santa Fe and the Las Cruces area,  as well as widening NM 44· to four lanes between Bloom.field  and Bernalillo.  Gaming Oversight  Badly needed regulatory supervision of off-reservation slot  machines was established in the form of the Gaming control Board  with a $7 million appropriation signed by Governor Johnson. The  board will ensure strict compliance with the state's gaming ler)slation  at fraternal organiz.ations and race tracks.  The 1998 ler)slature's accomplishments are important and  praisewonhy. Unfortunately, the budget sent to Governor Johnson  IS a mess. We're not making any major travel plans between now  and June 30th, because the  general consensus is that we'll  ~  be called back to the drawing  board in Santa Fe. Hopefully,  during a special session, we  can come up with a fair and  responsible state budget  ·············•********************  Kip Nicely  State Representative/District 31  2%-9277  ••••••*******•••••••**************  THE GRIT  Regardless of race, creed, color,  or when you were born ...  Come Join Us Sunday morning!  You don't have to stop thinking when  you walk into our church.  Our pastor is known for his intelligent  and thought-provoking sermons.  • \  ·~.:  •  ... · .. ....... ,/ ..... ..  Sandia Presbyterian Church  Worship Services: 8:10am, 10:30am  Sunday School, all a_ges; 9:00am  Nursery available all services  Very active youth, adult,  and singles program.  Counseling service available  to the community.  Rev. Dewey Johnson, Pastor  10704 Paseo Del Norte NE, Alb., NM 87122  Gust east of Eubank). 856-5040  : Pine Tip Moth  Season ls  onTheWav!  Protect vour Pioon  trees from damage!  Correct  spray  and  proper  . timing  . are essential for effective control ·  $15 per tree (up to 9 ft.)  Includes 2 timed sprays,  fertilizing, plus iron & sulfur  .Sandia  ·.  Environmental ·  Call Dan or Jacque  856-6617  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  •••••••••m•••••••••••••••••••••••  County Of Bernalillo  ~1998 ~  January and Feb!Ual)' are always busy times for elected officials because the Legislature is  in 5e$ion. Bernalillo County has two initiatives for legi.51ative consideration that I would  like to bring to your attention.  EXTRATERRrrORIAL PL\NNING, WNING AND ANNEXATION  CUrrent law has conlliaing provisions providing cities and counties with authority for and  jurisdiction over exoaterritorial platting and planning within the tmincorporared areas of  counties. House Bill 238 provides:  • A mechanism to establish an extraterritorial land use conunission composed of county  and city members.  • Open dialogue between the county and the city regarding forced annexations .  SfATE OF NEW MEXJCO CONsrrnmONAL AMENDMENT  The proposed amendment to the State Constirution would allow the voteIS of New Mexico  to decide if Bernalillo County should establish a system for the professional seleaion of the  County Clerk, County 'Iteasurer, County Assessor and County Sheriff. By appointing offi- cials to these offices. county management would be able to eliminate redundant elfons and  provide a higher level of service to the public. Please call us if you have any questions on  these two issues.  HAPPENINGS IN 1HE FAR NORTHF.ASr  • At last! The contract for San Bernardino Park will be awarded at the first commis.sion  meeting in March. Work should begin shortly thereafter.  • County Public Works has contracted a furn to surface-treat Juniper Hill Loop, Rock Ridge  and the entry portion of Juniper Hill Road in the North Sandia Heights. Surface improve- ments to Sandia Heights Drive are also included in the annual School Bus Route  Agreement  • We are rapidly approaching the end of the Alameda Corridor Srudy. A public hearing will  be scheduled in late februaiy or early March.  • Negotiations continue to identify sites for additional turf playing fields and children's play- ground parks.  • If you would like to schedule meeting5 in the Lt William Sabrava Sheriffs Substation, you  may call 798-7007 to reserve the pubfic meeting room.  • Did you know State Law Enforcement DispatcheIS Academies for state certification are  regularly held at our substation? We have participants from the City of A I buquerque, Rio  Rancho, Albuquerque Public Schools, Albuquerque Police Department and the UniveISity of  New Mexico. We are proud of our corrununication and dispatcher staffs!  I would also I ike to use this public forum to say thank you to Roberts Oil and S&J  Enterprises for their cooperation in addressing light pollution concerns at the Kick 66 station  on Tuunway Boulevard. The red stripe around tFie canopy has been toned down, flat lenses  have been ordered for under the canopy and all Lights except those used for security  are turned off by 11 pm. Let's all express our appreciation to Kick 66 for being such a  responsive good neighbor.  Until next time ...  Bernalillo County Commissioner  District 4  Architectural Control  By Chris Harmon - SHHA Architectural Control Committee, Chair  No report submitted.  Other Committee Members:  DonAunapu, Weldon Johnson, Nancy Norem, Bill Waters, James Wise  Traffic & Safety Report  By Bob Brown - SHHA Traffic & Safety, Chair  No report submitted.  Other Committee Members: John Cashwell, George Hight  THE SANDIA H EIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SPRING - 1998  Announcing ...  a Spring Celebration  at Wild Bird Center  POOLS,  PONDS  &PUDDLES  -u-- • Most styles 18· deep  • High Density Polyethylene  • 200 mil thickness  • Resists cracking & chipping  • UV stablized  • 15 yr. limited warranty  • 16 styles available  • 13 gallons - 270 gallons  • Priced from $38 - $379  MechanlcaV  blologlcal filters,  fountain spray heads  and pumps are all  now available  at our store.  CONCRETE  BIRD BATHS  • Large selection in  stock  • Concrete works well in  high wind areas  • Priced reasonably  from $59.99 - $64.99  •Other bird baths from: $19.99 • $300.00  Coming Soon/ .  Our New "Spring Lawn & Garden Collection."  Davis  Precision  Weather  Instruments  How's The Weather?  Included are all of the following functions:  •Inside temperature from 32° to 140" (0 ° to 60°).  •Outside temperature-from ·50° to 140° (-45° to 60°).  •High and low temperature with time and date.  • Wind direction in 1 • or 1 o• increments.  11/~~ ...... •Wind speed to 175 mph (150 knots, 280 km/hr, 78 mis).  • High wind speed with time and date.  Davis Weather  Wizard Ill  •Wind chiU to ·134° F (·92° C).  • • Low wind chill with time and date.  • Alanns for temperature, wind speed, wind chill and time.  #7425 Weather Wizard IH .... $195.00  (One Year Manufacturer's Warranty)  Many other models are In stock!  r-----------,r------------~r-----------,  Trade-in  Coupon  introductory  Coupon  Offer Coupon  Bring In Uthe other  Pre-Season Hummer  10% Off  guy's" ~birdseed  Special!  0  bag and receive  on any MacCourt Lawn  20% off on any of our  15% Off!  Pond or on any of our  locally formulated  smy Hummingbird  concrete bird baths  birdseed blends  feeder in stock  (Not to be combined with  (Not to be combined  (Not to be combined  other offers)  with other offers)  with other offers)  L  (expires 3·31·93)  (expires 3·31-93)  (expires 3·31-93)  -----------~L------------~L-----------~  ~ , i 0 • Wild Bird Center  •  • Your ultimate backyard nature store  The Promenade Shopping Center  SPAIN & EUBANK NE  (S200 Eubank Blvd. NE Suite B-8)  Albuquerque, NM 87111  • (505) 332-4737.  n  Spain  now to -----11---.,.--- find the  Wild Bird  Center  Osuna  Montgomery  l1)e Promenade  Shopping Center  1 nc CJKll  By Claire Wilcox - SHHA Vice President and Committees Chair  Special OPEN HOUSE and Coffee  to Usher in Spring  Feeling low and need a  lift? Corne to Sandia  Height's fust coffee of the  new_ year and ioin other  neighbors and friends for  a real treat The Tenys of  Big Hom Ridge are gra- ciously opening their newly remodeled and updat- ed home for a special tour. So let's join them for a  rup of coffee and a great chance to ooh and aah!  Coffee /Open House  Judlth & Paul 'Jerry  368 Big Hom Ridge Road  March 18th, 10 -12 noon  Tuke Live oak to White oak. Turn right to  Big Hom Ridge, then left to #368, seven houses  down the road Look for the SHHA balloon!  SHHA WineTasting  Saturday, March 7th  The 4th Annual Wlnetasting is here!  On Saturday, March 7th, from 5-7pm, at FUtures  For Children, we will be serving 45 line wines pr~  vided by National Distributing Company. That's Io  more than last year! 'Ilckets are $8.00 per person.  The hors d' oeuvres and finger foods everyone  brought to last year's event provided such a won- derful accompaniment to the wines and the  evening. we are asking for an encore.  Please bring your .favorite appetizer once  again, and we promise to publish the recipes in the  Grit So bring a recipe card with your dish and we'll  not only enjoy it at the winetasting but all through  the year.  Futures for Children is the building  directly across from Circle K on the west side. To  gain entrance, drive to the light at Tramway l1me  and tum w~ go to the fust intersection and tum  north, following the road into the Futures for  Children parking lot Start your evening with some  excellent wines amongst friends and neighbors.  Non-alcohooc wines as well as soft drinks will also  be available! AIXI there will be plenty of time after- wards for dinner somewhere special  A ticket reservation form was stuffed in  your February Sandia Heights Services bill If you  didn't see it, call Claire Wilcox at 856-6282 for la.st  minute information.  Don'tf~et  to bring  one of your  favorite  hors d' oeuvres  and a recipe  card!!!!!  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Wine enthusiasts sample the fare  at last year's successful event.  See you there!  Taste over 45 different wines!  4th Annual SHHA  _ Saturday, March 7  5:00 - 7:00 pm  Futures For Children - 9600 Tennyson NE  Reservations and payment must be made in advance.  Pick up prepaid tickets at door. no tickets sold there.  $8  per persoo  !MJst be aver 2D  If you can. please  bring a Favorite  f-brs d'oeuvres  cfish ANO a written  recipe. We plan to  feature them in  the next Grit!  45 wines can be tasted this year! 8 wines over $15 and 4 over $20. b  Geyser Peak Reserve Shiraz at $32/bottle will be the most expensive. 'e  Non-alcoholic wines and soft drinks will also be served!  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  Government Liaison  By George Hight - SHHA Government Liaison, Chair  This Committee is continuing to try to solve the light- ing objections at the Kicks 66 Station on Tramway.  A meeting was called by Commis.5ioner Barbara Seward to  disoJss these concerns. Owner William Roberts of Roberts Oil  was represented by Mr. Mike Kerr. the builder of the station.  Other attendees were: '!Wo members of the Sandia Heights  Homeowners Association; two representatives from the North  ABQ Acres Association; Frank Sandoval, county ZOning  Admini.so:ator; and County Commissioner Barbara Seward.  Mr. Kerr agreed that the lighted red stripe on the station canopy was too bright  and di5aJs5ed plans to make it similar to stripes on o!her buildin~>. The County has  agreed to measure the lumen output of the canopy lights to detemune their compliance  with the new lighting O!dinance. It was also agreed that there should be some sort of  shielding around the canopy lights to reduce the nighttime brilliance. Mr. Kerr said he  was meeting with representatives from Phillips and would present the problem to them.  Any changes would be the responsibility of the station owner. Mr. Kerr promised to  report to Commissioner Seward after his meeting with Phillips, and in a letter to the  SHHA Committee, advised that he was changing the lens in the canopy lights to reduce  the brilliance of the spillage as well as reducing the brightnes'l of the red stripe.  The Committee has also been asked to check the legality of the real estate  signs that are being placed at corners and intersections of some of the streets in Sandia  Heights. The proliferation of these small lead signs has raised a number of objections by  residents. At this time we are calling the companiesfmdividuals and requesting that  they remove them. Residents are not objecting to a single sign on the property for sale  or the one day use of an Open House sign.  Other Committee Members: Barbara ROS11agle, Bob Brown  New Development  By John Keller - SHHA New Development, Chair  No report submitted. Committee Members: }on Cashwell, Lester LJbo, Bill Waters  GREAT HARVEST  The Bread Store For  Every Bread Your Heart Desires  European Breads:  11200 Montgomery  (at Juan Tabo)  293-8277  Crusty  French,  Italian &  and  4801 Montano Rd  (at Taylor Ranch Dr.)  899-2566  Home  Style Breads:  ~~  .....  Whole Wheat. Gre.a1lH~rVeJ  White,  ~~.  Fruit Filled & Cheese.  Bread C0;  Stay Loose & Have Fun!  '  Visit Us For B r~ads With Pizzazz.  Free Your Imagination.  Make Every Mea l Memorable.  SPRING - 1998  SANDIA HEIGHTS SKURllY  CAUS COMPARISON - 1996-1997  TYPE Of CAll:  JAN -DK  1996:  JAN-DK  1997:  Alarms ......................................... 641  Open Door/Window ....................  59  ........... 609  ........... 35  Motorist Assist .............................. 165 ............ 123  Breaking & Entering .....................  12  Attempted Breaking & Entering .. ...,  13  Possible Breaking & Entering .......  1  Construdion Site Burglary............  3  Vehicle Burglary ..........................  22  18  12  5  3  11  Suspicious Vehicle ....................... 170  ......•.... 128  Suspicious Person ........... .............  79  l!eeping Tom ................................  6  Theft (l arceny) ............................. 35  Animal Control Assist ................... 33,  Lost /Found Pet .............................  58  Pet Nuisance ................................  20  Snake ...........................................  18  Family Dispute .............................  9  Neighbor Dispute .........................  8  Loud Disruptive Party ................... 17  Fireworks Complaint ....................  7  Vandalism (General) ..................... 92  Mailbox Vandalism ......................  59  Mailbox Stolen .............................  6  Lost/Found Items ..........................  9  Deer Hunters ................................  0  Speeding Vehicle .......................... 12  Assault /Battery(Fight) ..................  4  Death Threat ...................... .... .. ....  6  Unusual Special Request .............. 64  Salesperson Problems.................... 30  Phone Problems............................  11  Car Accident.................................  15  Motorcycle Nuisance ....................  6  Fire...............................................  40  Rescue ............................... :.......... 4 t  Utility Company Assist .................. 52  Construction Sites.......................... 20  Vacant Houses (For Sale, etc.)........ 29  Specials (Extra patrols/observation) 48  74 o.  36  15  89  21  21  10  8  10  6  46  69  0  5  0  2  5  5  53  18  8  21  21  12  38  33  31  74  Homeowners on Vacation ............. 2568 ......... 2565  TOTAL CALLS .••...•..•••••••••••••••••••••• 3751 .T ....... 4334  Total M ileage ••••••••••.•••••••••••••••• 46256 ••••••••• 44152  Saxdia $icgfttJ  WitJjfpp  Assprinq  ~~  approaches.  thouqhts tum  to the qarden ...  ThinRinq of addinq  somethinq new  this year'?  Join us for the next meetinq of the Wildflower Club,  "Planning Your Herb Garden"  Wednesday, March 18th. 7:30 pm  Home of Peqqy and AI Owens  1434 Honeysucllle Drive  Discussion > Questions > Refreshments  For more information about the Wild flower Club. call 856-6844  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Covenant Support  By Ruth Friesen - SHHA Covenant Suppon Committee, Chair  Check Before You Construct  The spring consouction and renovation season is  upon us. The covenants, which run with the land and  apply to all lots in Sandia Heights, require that any con- struction, renovation, or alteration of any strucrure,  including walls, fences, antennas, air-conditioneis or any  other saucture, be approved by the  Architectural Control  Committee. Before you  begin any work. including  clearing of the landscape, call  Erin Frinkman, the SHHA  Administrative Assistant at  ~ 296-1412 for the proper  "'' form to submit for project  approval.  "The natural vegeta- tion is to be left undis- ~ turbed where practical on  r  residential lots. except for  acces.5 to property, clearing of  building sites and establishments of lawns and flower  beds adjacent to buildings.· This exaa wording is in most  of the covenants (3 7 of them) in Sandia Heights. There  are also prohibitions against planting trees which  constitute a screen, Chinese Elms, cotton-bearing  Cottonwoods, and Bermuda grass. Check your Unit  covenants for the exact wording.  We continue to get complaints about RVs  parked in Sandia Heights. Most of the Units do not  allow traileis, boats, or recreational vehicles to be  parked anywhere except in an enclosed building.  The Association has a lawsuit pending which  will help JegaDy define what constirutes an RV  of a number of storage facilities  listed in the Yellow Pages. Let's  try to keep our neighborhood  looking as natural as the devel- opeis intended.  Another issue that  has arisen is the use of wire  fences. This type of fence is  not allowed anywhere in the  ~ 7  Sandia Heights area, except  at subdivision boundaries, as  t-- in.5talled by the developer. As previously  noted, alt fence construction must be  approved by the Architectural Control Committee.  When you signed the paperwork purchasing your  property, you should have received a copy of the  covenants for your Unit from the 1ltle Company or your  Realtor. If you didn't receive them, or can't find them, you  can get a copy from the SHHA office (296-1412). or from  the Bemalillo County As.sessor's Office (768-4040). SOOn  you will be able to browse Sandia Heights Horneowneis  Association's Webpage - http://www.nmia.com/shha~lll l  for all the newly scanned and proofed ~  · SHHA covenants.  The Board, the Architeaural  Control Committee and the  Covenant Control Committee work  very hard to maintain the stan- dards of our community for your  benefit !'lease do your part to keep  Sandia Heights a beautiful commu- nity. If you have any questions  regarding covenants, you can call  the SHHA office or Ruth Friesen,  Covenants Ch.aiipeISOn (856-1593)  • nsw  5HHA  Wsb  '. 5~t8  5DDrl~  •  37 setuf cavmts for  S3Ddia Heights m SOOI  • accessed a amput- er. FiDisbil!I toms are  •eio' applie• aad aor  site su11• •e 1p and  rmi11 Witbi1 i.e mt  few 1111t•s. tbaaks ta  SHHA C111111icalioas  Ca111illee 1ember  Debbie lliller. heStiDBS,  ideas'  n 1151-1211  and the intent of the covenant dealing with  this issue. If you own an RV. please use any  .  Qther Committee Members: Lester Libo, Lorrie Rice, Robert Thomas  l l Adjustable rate  out of control?  We're looking at  the best interest  rates since 1992.  And the best fee  package we've  been able to offer  in a long time. J J  llllt...1111  1111111111  NORWEST MORTGAGE  ll r ........ 505-881-7972  .. .. .. .. '* IC»--881·1533 • P.,,.r. 505·758-0354  II II."""" II II  Present this coupon for a ...  ,r FRi£ cRiDir RiPoRt 7  f $60 VALUE tor your loan cJosad with Carol Graham I  REFINANCE to improve your interest rate,  I  tBfTTJ or take cash-out, up to 75% of the  f  appraised value of your home.  I  NO APPUCATION FEE.  I  I !!'?!!'!!5!.~R3.1~2_,,...,,, ... ,~  @r I  Can now/ Expires May 29, 1998.  =  '---------------'  THE SANDIA.HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SPRING - 1998  SANDIA IAND CIA/M-VPDATE:  Still In Legislative Limbo  By Jack Walker - Sandia Mountain Coalition, Co-Chair  The only actions of any significance on the Sandia Pueblo's land  claim since our last report in The Grit are related to a resolution passed by the  Pueblo's 1libal Couilcil on August 27,!WT (RF.SOLUITON # 97.44). The reso- lution, endoised by the Superintendent of the Southern Pueblos Agency of the  Bureau of Indian Affairs, was directed to the Sandia Peak Tram Company and  stated the pueblo's position with respect to the Tram Company's interest in its  Sandia Heights SU!xlivisions.  The resolution "reaffinns and recognizes all of the existing, le.$itirnate  rights, title, and interests including without limitations any rights, title and  interests (the narn Co.) has in " .. Sandia Heights Subdivisions, acces.s road- ways and utility rights-of-way. The resolution specifically states • ... future  (utility) installations may be made for the benefit cl (those) properties.·  After receipt of this resolution in November 1 WT, the Tram Company  filed an "amirus curiae" (friend of the court) brief with the Court stating their  position on the claim. In short, the narn Company now believes the Pueblo  will protect the Company's business interests and therefore it does not oppose  and "generally supports" the Pueblos claim. In response, the U.S. Justice  Department attorney, representing the U.S. Forest Service and the  Department of the Interior in opposition to the Pueblo Claim, pointed out that  the Tuun Company's o_peration is apparently dependent upon obtaining a  lease from the Pueblo for land located within the Pueblo's boundazy, and in  maintaining good business relations with the Pueblo; Therefore its parochial  position does not qualify for amioJs curiae status.  _  Encouraged by the Pueblo's conunitment to allow future utility instal- lations, Sandia Mountain Coalition (SMC) contacted Public Service of New  Mexico (PNM) and Jones Intercable with requests to pursue the possibility of  adding riatural gas and cable to the area. After looking into it, PNM advised  us "that the resolution does not provide much in the way of rights," and  quoted the Pueblo's attorney as saying • ... that any extension woU!d have ro  be approved by the Pueblo," .. ."if approved, there would be conditions such as  limited term, compensation, etc. placed on this approval" and that • ... it is pos- sible that it would not be approved at all.· PNM 's conclusion was "It appears  that Resolution 97-44 does little for the homeowners of Sandia Heights and  'Ilerra Monte.·  Although this latest 1libal oouncil Resolution does not directly address  the interests oflhe actual residents of Sandia Heights North, 11erra Monte and  Evergreen Hills, it is, SMC believes, a good example of the diffirulties we fuce  in settling this dispute. Attorneys o  ·  this claim question whether this  resolution is legally binding even ~it  is endoised by the BIA. 1libal  Council Resolutions are, in general, not binding, and resolutions by the  Pueblo regarding title, a= to, and jurisdiction over (taidng etc.) either pri- vate or public lands may be ~ed by future Pueblo administrations. Thus  current statements of disinterest m private properties and conunitments to  continued public acces.s to forest lands may be disavowed in future resolu- tions. It is thus the intent of the SMC to continue tD influence the rurrent legal  NEW HOMEOWNERS  IN SANDIA HEIGHTS  -1997 - proceedinl?.5 through our intervenor status in order to obtain clearly defined  rights for nomeowners as well as "open space users." To this end, SMC will  continue efforts to obtain a favorable Court decision and iegisjatio'rt guarantee- ing by law, title, acces.s and utilities on private lands as well as public access  to the lands within the rurrent national forest and wilderness area.  Finally, their is nothing new to report on the status of a decision in the  U.S. Distria Court in Washington. The Pueblo has requested an oral argument  on all pending motions, so the ball is still in judge Greene's court. Please  remember "it's not over until it's over" and we need your continued financial  support as we continue to attempt to protect your interests. Contributions to  cover legal fees. comments and suggestions can be sent to Sandia Mountain  Coalition, P.O. Box 14353, Albuquerque, NM 87191.  A~e r 24 years as a Resident and a Realtor,  nobody knows sandia Heights longer or better!  ~  PatLinzer  COMMlillD TO YOUR SUCCESS!  A SELLER'S DREAM  1 know the maricet intimately and can effect a fast closing, - bringing you the l!!ghest P.QSSlble J;!rice for your home.  A Bl/t'ER'S NECESSITl'  I'm a professional, highly sensitive to your lli!l!Jg  !I,qulrements, P£rsonal p.!!ferences and f!nand al needs.  A PRO IN "VIUJE RANGE MARKETING"  1 understand this proven Prudential Advantage.  It's the WAVE OF THE FUTURE THAT CAN TRULY HELP YOU  attract more offers,  shorten sales time  and set }'our home  apart In the lfstlngs.  CAUME- l 'U flll toU IN!  -296-5400  HOllE 269-7272  Extraordinary  Home Addition!  884-8800  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  IBimillID~ IPIB®IF1 U LJFg Sandia Heights' Very Ow1  N  By Carolyn Hinde/ - Grit Editor  ot many communities can brag about having a prima ballerina  in their midst But Sandia Heights is a very special place, and Patricia  Dickinson is one of our very special residents. Last year she was  welcomed a.s the new Artistic Director of the New Mexico Ballet Company,  taking on an excellent group of dancers facing an uncertain financial  future. But this lovely lady brings a wealth of dance expertise and  directorial experience that just may be the "turning point" for this  deserving company a.s well a.s a growing number of balletomanes.  If you were lucky enough to wimess the delightful Nutaacker of  Christmas pa.st. you were privy to her efforts in bringing dance straight to  the hean where it belongs. Patricia had been the SUgarplum Fairy many  times during her challenging career and wa.s overflowing with ideas on  how to revitalize this beloved work, gathering a ca.st that ranged from  Albuquerque 8 year-olds to seasoned professionals from around the  world. She directed and choreographed the pert'ormance along with her  long-time friend, renowned dancer and UNM professor, Bill Evans . .  Together with the New Mexico Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Roger  Malone, they brought Popejoy Hall to its toes.  But direaing is only one of the "tiaras" that she wears. Tucked  away in the comer of a shopping mall on Wyoming south of  Montgomery is Dance Theatre of the Southwest where Patricia is owner,  director, teacher and second mom to over 150 dance students of all ages.  There are da.sses in Modern dance, jazz. Tup and f1amenco, but cla.ssicaJ  Ballet remains the staple. At any given time, pixies in pink tights and  black leotards can be seen practicin their • lies," while older girl.5 line the  barre on "pointe," making cliffi~ leg ~  seem effonless. Shoulders  down, hands soft, thumbs hidden. Grace personified. Classes are relaxed  but formal, with a.s few a.s 12 students participating. 'Daining is all impor- tant - with insuuction in nutrition, safety and anatomy. "My dancers  know they have to eat well to have their bodies perf onn," says Patricia.  "We also have a significant number of boys in attendance, who use the  rigorous dance exercise routines to keep in shape and enhance their abili- ties in football, soccer, track. swimming and other sports. Parents don't  force their kids to take lessons anymore, my students want to dance."  And that's how Patricia started back in Athens, Georgia. She  wanted to dance. Born to parents who loved music. dance lessons were  available to all five of their children. But only Patricia became serious  about it At five, she wa.s studying 3 days a week with her favorite dance  teacher, Nancy Stone. "In seVenih grade I wa.s already teaching friends  after scOOol to pay for my pointe shoes," she confides. At nine, she wa.s  accepted in the Southern Ballet Company of Atlanta, where she danced  under the auspices of Pittman Corry and famed American Ballet Theater  dancer, Karen Conrad  But after 9 years with the company, Patricia heeded her father's  advice and enrolled at Sullins College in Vrrginia to pursue a degree in  dance physical therapy. "You really don't need a degree to be a dancer,"  says Patricia, "but it's a difficult financial path. You only perfonn about 24  weeks out of the year, so you may have to find other ways to make a liv- ing." She wa.s a scholarship recipient at the North Carolina School for the  Arts and studied at the Graham Conservatory in New York. Her dance  tutors  included Madame Valentina Belova and Nil<ila Tulin of the Ballet Russe  de Monte carlo.  She graduated with a Bf A in Dance from Southern Methodist Unive!Sity  in Dallas in 1978, while simultaneously serving a.s Artist-in-Residence for the  Dallas Black Dance Theater - the foremost regional Black company, and danc- ing for the Dallas Opera and the Dallas Ballet Choreographers and teachers such  a.s Geolge Skibine, Marjorie ThlJchief and jarnes Clouser fine-tuned her dance  techniques. She wa.s also a founding member and ro-director of the Dancers  Unlimited in Dallas for ten years, perfonning the works of Bill Evans, Bill T.  Patricia Dickinson is Artistic Director of  the New Mexico Ballet Company and Owner of  Dance Theatre of the Southwest School of Dance  )ones, Matthew Diamond, Peter Pucci and Moses Pendleton of the contempo- rary Momix Company.  Her years of perfonning were indeed filled with superstars and special  moments. Arthur Mitchell of Dance Theater of Harlem offered Patricia a part in  his unique composition Rhythmtron because she wa.s one of few able to do a  "contraction on pointe," a very traditional modem dance move. She worked  with Judith Jamison for 6 fascinating weeks in 1984 after the 6 ft. legend left the  Alvin Ailey Dance Company, and "jet&!" to be! canto Puccini operas sung by  great divas like Renato Scotto. She became friends with Gelsey Kirkland, an  ~ A ballet class warms up at Dance Theatre  of the Southwest on Wyoming.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIO N  SPRING - 1998  Sugar Plum Fairy.  !'3trida and Larry hold Ni~  and their Siberian '"!usky Sitka  in front of Berth;i, Larry's pnzed bass fiddle that cut its strings  on the steamin' streets of New York City .  ....-- ----- taught dance in all but three states in the U.S., as well as in Canada,  American Ballet 'Theatre favorite, when Cd;ey came ID New Mexico ID teach a  master class for Patrida's dance school in 1996 and 1997. One of her most  poignant memories was watching Russian phenomenon Maya Plyetskeya  dance to perfection at age 60. One of her nightmares - having to dance a Pas  de Deux in the Paper Doll Ballerina with a 'broken zipper on the back of her  elaborate wedding gown c.ostume. A standing ovation brightened her crimson  face as the performance came ID an end  It was am d .  those yeaIS that Patrida arabesqued inlD directing  and choreography, • .~o.ire with people, music with bodies, and drama. ..  without words,· as Clive Barnes once described it She loved the artistic chal- lenge. She collaborated with a New Yor:k company ID produce dance exercise  and instructional ballet videos and recorded over 15 musical album5 for dance  schools. She continues ID perform the "Hi.5tory of Dance,· a program and series  of wor:kshops she designed for the Texas and New Mexico school systems,  through a grant from the ABQ Uiban Enhancement '!lust Fund Patrida has  Dad relaxes at his Yamaha  Grand while son Nicholas  composes for Pooh Bear  on a Yamaha of his very own.  Mexico and Sweden. Dance Masters of America and Dance  Olympus/Dance America are but a few of the organiz.ations which still  benefit from her considerable experience.  Through all the traveling, teaching, performing and grueling  schedules, Patrida still found time to fall in love. She met her husband  Larry Wells in 1978 while he was studying law in Dallas and she was  studying dance. Four or five times a year, they would escape to the reju- venating open spaces of New Mexico. Married in a meadow at the Pecos  Wtldemess west of Santa Fe in 1985, they vowed to someday move ID  the state. '!heir dream became a reality in 1990, when they decided to  quit their jobs and look for a home in Albuquerque. Patricia had a poten- tial position teaching at UNM under Bill Evans, then Chairman of the  Dance Deparanenl Larry would be opening a satellite law office for his  Dallas law firm. Being dooe to the mountains and forests was a must and  Sandia Heights seemed perfect. A cozy comer home on 'Itamway Terrace  Loop was waiting for them. It has a spacious greattoorn that encompass- es both the kitchen and living room separated by a huge adobe fireplace.  A beautiful fountain adorns their western view as it spills down the patio  wall just outside the dining area. Bertha, Larry's prized bas.5 fiddle, is  propped prominently in a bookcased come~ a testament ID one of his  many loves - music. A stunning walnut grand piano is nearby vying for  attention. Larry still plays rock. jazz and blues with old buddies who were  members of the band Mystic VIC in Albuquerque. He practices commercial  real estate law at campbell & Wells, PA.  And then there's Nicholas, an 18 month-old bundle of energy  with a cherub's face, who has taken over the house and the lives of this  fascinating couple. A joyful child, he's already showing interest in the  arts. He has his very own synthesizer under his crib and when a balleri- na dances her way onlD the Sesame Street 1V screen, he stops every- thing he's doing to admire her with gigantic eyes. Sitka, the family's  Siberian Husky keeps her own watchful eye on all proceedings. Patricia is  thrilled with finally being a mom to her own child after being a surrogate  mother ID so many children throughout her reaching career. She admits  there was some "sibling rivalry" among;t her students, but Nicholas has  won their hearts, attending reheaISals with mom on many occasions.  If you ask this fairy princess about the future, she foresees satis- fying times raising her son and continuing ID reach. Dance 'Theatre of the  Southwest has already performed The Se.cret Garden, Babes in 1byfand  and Mary Poppins and will premier snow White this May at '!he Roc.ley  '!heater. And watch for magic from our very own New Mexico Ballet  Company with Patricia at the helm. The 25th Anniversary Gala i.5 May  8th and 9th at Popejoy Hall and will feature the wor:k of five choreogra- phers, three sets of guest artists and Patricia's new children's ballet to the  music of the Green Chile Jani. Band.  "When dance wor:ks it liberates all kinds of feelings, conscious and  unconscious, giving a wonderful release which i.5 at once valid and vanishing.  Beyond their own the danceis know another perfect world '!hey diagram a  fragment of eternity.· - 'Ihomas VKlOL Patricia Dickinson would agree. *  start in  June !  Call for  Information  & Brochure  ~:..-~~~~~~~~  Q.ance Theafre of the So1Athwest, Jnc.  • Ballet • Modern • Creative Movement •  • Pointe • Boys • Pas de Deux •  AGES 3 TO PROFESSIONAL  Nat1onally Recognized Professional Faculty  Dance Theatre of the Southwest, Inc.  4200 Wyoming Blvd. NE #B2 (5. of Montgomery)  Albuquerque, NM 8711 1  Home of the New Mexico Ballet Company  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Ifs Time to SPRING into Action  By Shirley Medina - Master Gardener  1998 MASI'ERGARDENER  HO'IUNE PROORAMS  Garden Center Hotline  292-7144  SPRING GARDENING TIPS  February through October  Monday through Friday 9:30am -2:30pm  February: if you haven't gotten gardening cata- log.5 yet, send for then now • 'Begi.n planning/  designing your garden • Seeds can be started  indoors for later transplanting • If the ground isn't  froren, water plants and trees deeply at least once  • Wash down all evergreens with a hose •  Honeysuckle, santolina and butterfly bu.sh can be  pruned back hard • Ornamental grasses, except  blue fesrue can be pruned • Shrubs can be dug up  Extension Service Hotline  243-1386  April through August  Mondays and Fridays only,  llpm - 4pm  library Information Program  April through August  Saturdays 1 oarn - 3pm  at the following Libraries:  ~  East Mountain, Juan Tubo,  Lomas /Tuunway,  South valley, Tuylor Ranch  •  and transplanted • Set up planting beds, roof  drains, etc., to take advantage of water run-off as  snow melts, or as we get more precipitation.  March: If weather is warming, add slow release  fertilizer to plants and phoophate to bulbs and iris;  plant summer bulbs • Dig up  and divide day lilies • Clean any  debris that is around plants and  ~  trees • If ground is unfrozen,  ~  -t- \) start preparing planting beds for  vegetables & flowers • Be sure  ( ~ • .I« .) J to rotate crops ~m last ~ear.  \_  ~  .'  ~ ) .  and to add orgaruc material •  GARDENING CLASSF.S . \~~-._.._,,r,.._..,.=  Master Gardener Classes  ~  °"'. :<J<"'Y1.,.....,-"  Prune fruit trees, grape vines  and roses between end of  March and middle of April •  can the Garden Center for infor- mation on demonstrations.  April: If weather is warm  enough, it is a good time to  transplant seedfings • Plant  plenty of annuals to get an  early start on garden color;  perennials will come up later •  Plant tomatoes and peppers  towards end of April. or begin- ning of May • Start watering  more frequently, but beware of  these dty ordinances: Watering  by hose ok between I Qarn anil  nmrsdays 8am-I 2pm and  I :OOpm -2:30pm,  $ 7 .50 per class at the door  Tuesday evening clas.ses, $5.00  at the door  Landscape Design Classes  can the Garden Center at  296-6020 for more  information  6pm; sprinklers ok before 1oam and after 6pm.  can City of ABQ at 768-3655 for details.  A MINI-VEGETABLE PLANTING  GUIDE:  March: Fava or Gaibanw beans, carrots, leeks,  spring onions, parsley, snap or snow peas,  spinach, radishes • April: cabbage, cauliflower,  lettuce, turnips, watermelon • May: Tomatoes,  peppers, com, curumbers, potatoes, bush, pole or  Lima beans, other melons, brussels sprouts •  Since the Sandia Heights growing season may be  shorter than in other areas, try using seed or plant  varieties that develop early or are marked for short  season growing • Read labeLs •Ask your nursery.  A MINI-HEIRLOOM PLANT GUIDE  FOR CONTINUOUS COLOR:  (Below are bloom periods only; planting should be  in early spring. Note that perennials often take up  to two years to become established, so plant plen- ty of annuals with these.)  April: Creeping phlox. rock cress, crocus, daffodil,  snowdrops, violets, pasque flower, grape or blue  hyadnth.5 • May: Peony, tulip, dianthus, German,  Siberian or bearded iris, candyruft, columbine, spi- derwort • June: Poppy, Jupiter's beard, foxglove,  yellow flax, baby's breath, snow-in-summer,  lavender, catrnint, delphinium, Jacob's ladder,  speedwell, canterbury bells • July: Hollyhock. bee  balm, daylily, golden marguerite, shasta daisy,  feverfew, yarrow, purple coneflower, lamb's ears,  balloon flower • August: Blanket flower (gaillar- dia) , hardy chrysanthemum, rudbeckia, sea- lavendet spike gayfeather, plumbago, globe thistle  • September: Stonecrop, aster, coneflower,  helianthus, Pitcher's salvia, Michaelmas daisy,  New England astet  LL  SIT  NICE'N  MOiing. Fust time or fifth, it just doesn't  seem to get any easier. With all the ha.s.5les, the last  thing )Ql.I need is a real estate agent who doesn't  know the territory. Or ha.sn't done the holTle'M>rk.  It shouldn't have to be that hard. !f)Ql.l're buying  or selling in Sandia Heights, Linda Caldwell kn<ms  the territory and 005 been working it sua:es.sfully  for aver 19 years. It's that SCNV'f too.t got her into  the \.Vho'.5 \.Vho in !'Jew' Mexico Residential Real Estate,  the top IO Cold~ Banker Metro Realtors and named a fuviews Property Specialist.  It's what keeps past dients rerommending her aver and aver again  Undo. Caldwell "OOrks hard to make your moving experience nice ... and easy.  •  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  PIANf OFlllE SEASON  Pinyon Pine  Pinus edulis  Pinyon Pine (Pinus edulis) is a native  evergreen cnifer in the southwest region  of the U.S. and northeastern Mexico at  elevations between 4,000-8,000 feet. It  is the state tree and grows 1 5-20 feet tall  and 10-15 feet wide. The trunk may be  single or multiple with gray to black fur- rowed bark Small cones measuring 1-3  inches long produce large edible nuts.  Short blue-green needles measuring 3/4  to 1-3/4 inches grow in bundles of two.  A distinctive pine fragrance emanates  from this plant especially after a rain.  Planting: Pinyon Pine is usually available as a container plant, or balled and  burlapped. You can usually get larger plants if they are in ball and burlap. For a  container plant, dig a hole the size of the root ball and plant directly into the  ground. If the soil is well drained (and Sandia Height usually is), no soil amend- ment is needed; otherwise, in mostly clay soils, dig the hole slightly larger then  the container size and mix 1/3 planting mulch with 2/3 existing soil.  For ball and burlap plants, be sure to remove all chicken wire and burlap after a  plant has been set in its hole but before the soil is backfilled into the hole. Build  a berm with soil around the base of the tree out to the ends of the branches. Fill  up the basin twice to ensure a deep soaking. For the first three months, keep the  plant moist! After that, deep soak every two weeks depending upon the time of  the year. After the plant becomes established, deep soak every month to keep  Pinyon Pine looking its best.  Use: Pinyon Pine is a long lived, slow growing tree but may grow as much as  4-6 inches per year if basic care is taken. Evergreen foliage gives year around  beauty in the garden and is especially noticeable in winter when many plants  die back to the ground or drop their foliage. Use as a single specimen to attract  birds, not just for nesting but as a food source when the pinyon nuts mature. It  Makes a good screen, tall hedge or windbreak. If space permits, plant a group  of them together to form a native, low water forest. Very cold hardy, they can be  planted anywhere in New Mexico up to 8,000 feet in elevation. They can also  be planted temporarily in containers but need regular waterings.  Landscape Care: Pinyon Pine is a low maintenance plant that needs a thinning  out of dead wood every 2 years. Be sure to check your tree periodically for  insect pests. Here are the three major insects that can affect a Pinyon Pine. First,  in early spring, aphids can attack a tree just as the weather begins to warm up.  Although the insects may not be observed initially, a sticky, shiny residue may  be found on the needles and on the ground around the base of the plant.  There are a number of pesticides (organic or synthetic} that can be used.  If you have an aversion to pesticides, a strong jet of water every two weeks  for a 2 week period can be used. The second pest is the pitch moth. Looking  along the trunk or large limbs you may find a pinkish gummy mass. If you get  a knife you can scrape the gummy substance away and often find a 1 inch meal  worm like insect. Just dispose of it in the trash. Left unchecked, whole branches  may die out. There is no chemical control for pitch moth. Lastly, there is the  pine tip moth which attacks new growth, usually twice during the year. Their  damage causes dead tips on the branches which can severely limit the growth  of your tree.  Pine tip moth is prevalent at the end of April/beginning of May and again at  the end of June/beginning of July. The County Extension Service sets out traps  to determine the time to spray. It does no good to spray outside this time frame.  Be sure to check with your local nurseries or call the number below. The spray  used for Pine Tip Moth is either Cygon or Orthene. Be sure to follow label  directions and wear the proper protective clothing. There is no organic control  for this pest.  If you have any questions regarding this plant or want information on  Pine Tip Moth season, call Dan Caudillo at 856-6617.  (He independently sets his own traps in Sandia Heights.)  SPRING - 1998 ,  If you're paying  · more than $18  1  permonth . .i  13  for alarm monitoring,  let's talk!  FREE  reprogramming to our  monitoring center.  ti No long term contracts  ti No price increases- our rates are guaranteed  ti Repairs and upgra~~s of t;xisting  . systems at compet1t1ve prices  ti No premium for evening  and weekend repairs  4 /\LARM I  SERVICE  Deal directly with the owner.  A Sandia Heights resident with 21 years  experience. Call Bob Phillips at:  858-0548  DON'T TAKE A VACATION •••  ' EXPERIENCE AN  ADVENTURE!  WHEN YOU  CRUISE  $0UTHEA$T AlA$KA'$  $PECTACIJl.AR IN$/DE  PA$$ASE  ABOARD OUR PRIVATE so' YACHT  DfSIGN YOUR OvVN aJSTOM ITINERARY  SEE WHALES, BEARS,  EAGLES Er GLACIERS  ~  VISIT REMOTE VILLAGES,  BAYS £r COVES  FOR INFORMMION CONTACT:  8AlD EASlE CHARTERS  1831 TRAMWAY TERRACE LOOP, NE  ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87122  (505) 856-1337  FAX (505) 856-6645  ,,,  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Did You Know that Animal Cruelty, Care,  Maintenance, Licensing and Nuisance is Covered  by County Law?  Take Note  You may be surprised to know that a County ordinance protects  animals fro~le and people from animals. Pets that bark incessantly,  litter on nei  ring prqierty, or are not properly maintained can become  a problem or un.5USpedln~ owners. Wantonly killing, injuring or poi.son- ing domestic pets or wildlife is against the law. Here are some excerpts  from that ordinance for your information and your protection:  Bernalillo County Ordinance  88-16, Section VI  D. Animals disturbing the Peace.  It is unlawful for any person to allow any animal to unreasonably  bark, howl or make noise common to their species, or otherwise to di.snub  the peace and quiet of the inhabitants of the County of Bernalillo, or to  keep or maintain in such manner as to disturb by noxious or offensive  odors, or otherwise endanger the health and welfare of the inhabitants of  the County ofBemalillo.  E. Animal Nuisances on Sidewalks, Public Parks, Alleys  and Other Places Open to the Public.  It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to permit, either willfulJy  or through fuilure to exercise due care or control, any such animal to com- mit any nuisance upon the sidewalks or public park; or upon the floor or  wall of any common hall in any multiple dwelling; or upon any entrance  way, stairway or wall immediately abutting on a public sidewalk;, or upon  the floor or wall of any theater, shop, store, office building or other building  used in common by the public; or upon any private property other than  the owners of the animal.  Section VII: A. Physical Abuse.  It is unlawful for any pe!SOll to wiilfulJy or maliciously kill, maim,  disfigure, torture, beat with a stick; chain, dub, or other object; mutilate,  bum, or scald with any substance; overdrive or otherwise cruelly set upon  any animal except that reasonable force may be employed to drive off  vicious or trespassing animals.  If you have questions about this ordinance, please call the  Bernalillo County Animal care&. Regulation Department at 873-6706.  d Fl..A.l,11"11111"113  RJ3' IT5~,~~T!ICOJ!~  1/-'P~?a-. (J<"'4<  Start the New Year out  right, start it with us. We are  dedicated to helping people.  We also sell Gift Certificates.  Great Christmas Gift Idea.  5200 Eubank NE C-3  At the Promenade  Comer of Eubank & Spain  292-3696  ..... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .....  Vaccination & Licensing  All cats and dog> over three monrhs old are required by  Cowlty Ordinance to be vaccinated again& rabies. The vaccination  must be administered by a licell.5ed veterinarian. As the owner of  the dog or cat, you will receive a certificate with the vaccination  date and a desaiption of your pet You will also receive a metal tag  with the certificate nwnber and expiration date of the vacx:ine. The  tag should be affixed to your pet's collar.  All cats and dogs over six monrhs old are required by  County Ordinance to be licensed. Licenses may be obtained  through the CoW1ty Animal Care & Regulation office. Owners will  be required to provide the rabies certificate to obtain the license. A  metal tag will be provided and should be affixed to your pet's collar.  Licenses are valid for one year from issue date.  Unneu:~~:  DogorcatUcense-$6.00 ,~~'  ~  Above License (If owner is 62 or older) - $4.00  ~  Neutered/Spayed Dog or cat License - $2.00  - (Owner must supply veterinarian's certificate)  ~ Proper care & Maintenance  Pets need ad~te food, drink, shade, care and shelter in  order to maintain good health. If these basic elemenrs are not pro- vided by pet owners, the pets may be taken into protective custody  by Berrialillo CoW1ty Animal Care & Regulation.  It is important to keep your pet in a safe, enclosed area.  If you have him/her on a chain or leash, it must be 8' long. Also,  remember your pet always needs to be on a 6' leash when you  take him/her out in public. It is against the law to allow your pet to  run free on the sidewalk, in any public pruk or in any public area.  Dogs may bark to protect your home. However, it is a  nuisance to your neighbors if your pet is barking unreasonably.  Cruelty to Animals  Bemalillo County Ordinances prohibit anyone from mali- ciously h~  any animal, abandoning or intentionally poisoning  any pet or animal. CoW1ty ordinance also prohibirs female dogs or  cats in mating season to run free, they must be confined.  If your dog tides in the back of a pick-up, it must be  secured. Leaving your pet in a closed vehicle in the summer  monrhs can be vety dangerous, leave at least one window rolled  down, or better still leave your pet at home.  Owned and operated by  Marl< & Laura George  Rick & Debby Ruscetti  THE SANDIA HE!GHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SPRING -1998  IJj  Albuquerque  Biological  Park  Give Yourself a BioPark Spring Break  BioPark Connections 1998  News from the Albuquerque Biological Parle Educational Program  Spend your Winter and Spring Saturdays (and a few Fridays!) connecting with nature at the  BioPark: Discover fascinating ties that bind your life to the anllruils and plants sharing_your world.  Share an "Underwater Overllight" Adventure with your family! Learn the ancient art of textile dye- ing or l.¥1COver your hidden talents in the "Art of Arranging Flowers." BioPark Connections 1998 has  something for everyone!  ·  Want something fun as well as educational for your kids to do during Spring Break? Why not  send them on a "Spring Wildlife Safari" at the Rio Grande Zoo? They can see how the polar bear cubs  are doing, play gan}es, scavenge answers to habitat riddles, and participate in lots of fun activities.  An expenenced guide will even introduce them to Esperanza, the cheetali.  Have a budding botanist or marine biologist in the family? Your 9 to 11 year-old can join:'  captain Lucky and ProTessor Botanica during Spring Break for a "Spring Land and Sea Search" of the  Albuquerque Aquarjum and Rio Grande Botaruc Garden. Young explorers will have the opJ>Ortunity  to see what's new there, learn about herbal remedies and devefop their skills tying nautical knots to  take home.  Registration forms with class descriptions and fee informatfon are available at  the Rio Grande zoo and Aquarium/Garden offices, Albuquerque public libraries,  local bookstores, or by calling BioPark Education at 848-7180.  'Ilred of going to the same old place for lunch? Pack up that sandwich or salad and join your  friends at the Rio Grande Zoo for their monthly educational "Brown Bag Lunch Seminars." State  Land Commissioner Ray Powell will talk about New Mexico habitats and what state government is  doing to protect lands on Thursday, March 5th and Saturday, March 7th. Then come aboard an  "Undersea Slide Show Adventure" with ocean photographer Allen Ruttenberg on Thursday, April  2nd and Saturday, April 4th. Seminars are from 1:15 - 2:00PM on Thursdays and 12:15 -1PM on  Saturdays. Brown Bag Seminars are held in the Zoo Education Barn and included in the cost of regu- lar zoo admission. for more information call 848-7180.  Watch for more information on SprinW?ummer programs, and plan on joining your friends at  the Albuquerque Biological Park for fun and adventure while you learn about sharing our planet!  • As of January 1, 1998, H. Parnegg Realty completed a  merger with Coldwell Banker Metro Realtors!  t  ~  ..  • The merger makes  'COLDWELiiB~KER PARNEGG METRO  • That'iilakes MAX SANCHEZ an even  stronger force in the market!  •Look for MAX SANCHEZ and Coldwell Banker  PARNEGG METRO in Sandia Heights!!  MBA CRS • 880-2211  6301 Uptown Blvd. NE• Albuquerque, NM 87110  (505) 883-6161 Main • (505) 889-3578 Fax  vww.maxsanchez.com  COLD Wei.I.  BANl(C!RC PARNEGG  METRO  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  .  ., ~.  . SANdiA HAppENiNGs 'l!',,f::;r',C Hin.kl c .  Wild and  Not-So-Wild Life  Above: Two bobcats check out the view from a resident's deck on Big Hom  Ridge, while a young ster samples the birdbath in a yard on Juniper Hill.  Families of bobcats are becoming more prevalent m our community.  Watchable Wildlife Guide  If you've ever noticed those brown sign5 along  our roads with the binoallars on them (there's one on  'lhlmway near the Elena Gallegos rumoff) and won- dered what they meant - here's the scoop. A unique,  multi-agency project developed in cooperation with  Defender.; of Wildlife published a New Mexico Wildlife  Viewing Guide listing 76 of the best . .  sites. It  has 96 pages of interesting facts about~ friends  .....::===== .. and costs $1 1.45. !-11 proceeds go to the Share with  Wikllife ProgJarn. as ~  for OO!li?PJlle r=rd!. edu- cation and wildlife rehabililation. They're available from  NM Game & Thh in 5.lnla Fe. c:aJI .50&-827-6681 for info.  With the increasing number of encounters Sandia Heights resi- dents are having with large cats, we finally got some facts from NM Game  & Fish. (See article on page 18.) Seems that bobcats are really what we  are seeing on a regular basis, espedally if you live anywhere along the  boundaries of the Cibola National Forest or an arroyo that originates there.  These stealthy creatures can weigh as much as 45-50 lbs. And bobcats do  have tails ranging from stubs to 8" -12" long. Some recent photos by resi- dents indicate that they are adapting well to our environment and caution  must be taken to protea our small pets. Please call the SHHA office to  report attacks, so we can keep an aa:urate record for authorities.  Misinfonnation on Cougar Capture  Contrary to repons, Mike Johnson, Discrict Director and  Wildlife SUpervisor with the NM Department of Game & Fish, has  stated that no cougars have been trapped in the Sandia Heights area.  There was one reported in Pladtas last year and one was killed by a  car on 1-40 near Moriarity. There also have been reports of the cats in  the Edgewood area. Attacks on pets in Sandia Heights are believed to  be perpetrated by bobcats and not cougars. Attempts to trap bobcats  with live bait have been llllSUCCeSSful. If you're sure you've seen a  cougar or bear, please report it to Game & Fish. If a predator is tlueat- ening an area they will definitely respond.  Irene Middleton - Communications Committee  Coyotes are also getting braver. A call from a resident on  Paintbrush Road described a deadly attack on the family's 15 year-old  Cairn Tunier at 8:30 in the morning by a coyote the size of a Gennan  Shepherd. It had easily scaled their 5 ft. wall, killing the dog in the yard  and then jumping over the wall once again with its prey in mouth, The  family's attempt to scare it away with noise and tlueatening approach did  little to undermine its intent Animal Control said it must have been stalk- ing the pet for some time and used the high brush in the arroyo south of  the home to hide. Pets allowed outside for long J>Criods, even in enclosed  yards, are not safe from our wildlife. Be wau:hful and take precautions  while they are leashed.  Continuing the sad note, residents bordering the Sandia Indian  Reservation lost their Black Lab February 12th. after she ingested deliber- ately poisoned bait along the unused a= road starting north of the  County line restaurant (See Letters to the Ediror on pa.ge 18.) Although  the substance has been sent for laboratory identification, the enzyme  levels and convulsive nature of the ~s death indicate rat poison. It is  known that other dogs being walked m that area have also been poi- soned, but not fatally. Anyone with information about this cruel and inhu- mane behavior should alert authorities. Coyotes and other wild animals  seem to avoid the tainted bait, but our pets are in danger and informed  caution is necessary. Please pass the word.  New Man Joins Sanitation Crew  Our Sanitation Engineers, Danny and Fred, want to express their  gratitude for all the kindness shown during the holiday season. They hon- estly enjoy working for our commurlity and appreciate the daily greetings.  They've also added a new man to the team - Marc john.son is on board  now, so say hi if you get a chance. The Sandia Heights Seallity Patrol  responded to 4334 events last year or just under I 00 per week, so need- less to say they've been very busy. Neighbors are doing a great job of  reporting suspicious activity. Keep it up.  SPECIALIZING IN UNIQUE LANDSCAPE DESIGNS!  Sandia  Environmental  -DESIGNS- CallDan  for details!  856-6617  • Plantings & Consultations  • Pruning, Qean .. up & Hauling  • Reasonable Pricing  • 17 Years Experience  • NM Certified Nurseryman  ASKABOUT WWWATER  LANDSCAPE THEMES!  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  AViewfrom  the Ranger's  Station  Dear Friends,  The Ranger selection proces.5 is mov- ing slowly toward as,5igning a replacement for  Fl~y~ Thompson .. I e>epeet a decisk>n by the  pnnttng of this Gnt F10yd and his fcunily are  aoing well back east m the Beltway. The  Cibola is also seeking a new Forest Suiiervisor  and selection shoul<falso occur in MarCh.  I would also like to extend a fond  farewell to Neel Marsh, our Ecosystem  Planning and Information Services expert,  who is retiring after 28 years of service with  the federal government His work with us has  been inva!Uable. The Sandia and Mountainair  Ranger Districts are still sharing resources, so  Distnct staff are running programs in both  areas. For information afuut programs, con- tact the staff person who covered that topic in  this report Robert Cordts - Acting District Ranger  Fire Information Team  by Bequi Uvingswn  LEI' IT SNOW, LET IT SNOW, LEI' IT  SNOW!!!! The Sandia Ski opened its slopes  with 30 inches of snow on December 12th  and is goirig strong! A blessing for ski enthu- siasts! But what does this mean to Fire  Managers in the East Mountain area - a quiet  "fire season· come spring? It is certainly nue  that the current snow IJ<!Ck is great and the  moisture a welcome sight, but what will "El  Nino" bring come -March and April? The  results coula be catasnq~hic if the trend of  precipitation continues with a possibility of a  -hotter than normal, drier than normal"  spring. As long as the predpitation continues  throughout the spring and summer, vegeta- tion and new groWth will continue to floUrish  and remain green adding an aura of splendor  to the Sandias and Mamanitas. But if a true  southwestern spring. and summer occurs - with drying sun and blowing wind - a buildup  of den5e fuels just waiting for ignition will  ocrur as well. And all it taKes is one ignition  source to make it happen!  Although the current trend looks  promising, it is imperative that we focus on  remaining "pro-acnve • regarding fire safety.  Lands, Wilderness~ nails and  Recreation Operations Team  by Charfotte Minor  IT'S BEEN A WINI'ER WONDERLAND  at the District these days, very pretty. For  those of you who bunaled up and stayed  indoors, it was a beautiful signt to see. For  those who were out, winter was grand on  Sandia Mountain. Most of the developed  recreation sites are closed for the winter, but  we do maintain plowed parking areas at Doc  Long Picnic Ground, 1iee Spring; 'Ilail Head,  Balsam Glade Pimic Ground, Ellis 'Ilail Head  and Sandia Crest Some other sites do have  parking available, but the parking lots will not  be plowed.  The construction at Sandia Crest is  behind schedule, which meant that the obser- vation deck was closed this winter. Sandia  Crest' House is open, and visitors can walk  ~wn the trail south from .the parking lot to a  different overlook and still get a ·wonderful  view of AlOOquerque and the volcanos.  The District has made the decision to  add sites to the Fee Demonstration Project.  Last October we held public meetings, and  asked for comments on a proposed expan- sion. After a review of the comments and  benefits of being able to keep sites open, the  El Nino brought us a winter wonderland. But  summer could be a problem on the mountain.  District decided to go forWard. The sites that  will be added include: Tunnel Sprin~ Trail  Head, Bernalillo Watershed including aI1 pull- outs and parking areas, the Juan Tubo Basin  including la Luz and Piedra Lisa Trail Heads,  and Canyon Estates 'Ilail Head. The same $3  fee will apply at these sites, and the Fee Demo  Annual !'ass will be honored.  SPRING - 1998  Proposed implementation will be the  spring of 1998. Two issues did come up in the  public comments, these were concern about  whether low/fixed income individuals would  be excluded by adding the sites to the Fee  Demonstration area, and if the District was  pursuing all possible commercial contact foi  assistance with trail or site maintenance. I am  currently prep<lring alternatives for additional  free days, and making contacts through the  Chamber of Commerce to see if local business- es might help with this issue.  Interpretation and VISitor Services  by Dana Howlett  If you are interested in becoming  involved with either the NM Friends of the  Forest or the Friends of1ljeras Pueblo, contact  Dana Howlett at 281-3304. Both groups will  be setting new goals for 1998 in January.  Also, our yearly round of volunteer recruit- ment and trairung is about to begin. If you  would like to be a volunteer, please Call Dana.  Wmter Recreation/Special Uses  by susan folmson  For those of you who are still enjoying  the snow that "El N'mo" is providing, remem- ber that sledding, rubing and snowmobiling  are prohibited at "the pit" (the hairpin CUNe  just below 1iee Spring Trail Head). In addition,  snowmobiling is profiibited south and west of  State Highway 536. Sections of passing lanes  near Nine Mile Picnic Ground and 1 OK Trail  Head have been identified for parking. But  before parking anywhere, be sure it is allowed  and that there is sufficient clearance so that  you will not restrict or 12revent two-way  traffic. Don't park in front of any gate.  RELIGION  Are you curious?  Are you hurting?  We are all visitors in this world,  and our time is brief;  should we not search for the truth while we may?  The Baha'i Faith  For information call 856-1655  ··~HE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICA'l'jQC__j  e Large Predators of the Sandia Foothills S  By Chris Chadwidc - Public Information Officer, NM Game & Fish  During the spring and early summer, the  calls start picking up. Sighting; of coyote, bobcat  and the occasional rougar eventually make their  way to the offices of the New Mexico Department  of Gaine and Fish. Usually, the caller wishes only  to report the presence of these animals, which  doesn't necessarily require officers to take any  specific action. Occasionally, however, it's a little  more serious. Either the remains of a family pet  are found or in the case of a cougar, its presence in  an wban neighborhood may demand a response.  In most cases, the caller is just looking for some  information. The principal questiohS asked revolve  around whether or not these sightings are normal  for a given area and what threat do these preda- tors pose to either their family's safety or to that of  their pet In the following paragraphs, you will dis- cover why these encounters happen and what to  do if ~ou come face to face with a large predator.  Most llTlpOrtantly, you will learn some basic infor- mation enabling you, your family, and your pets  to live safely with them.  Background  While responding to wildlife complaints  near the Sandia foothills (including Sandia  Heights) I have encountered people who have dif- ferent opinions regarding wildlife. A typical com- ment is ... "I don't mind the wildlife but I think it  belongs in the forest, not in my yard." On the  opposite side of the spectrum the comments I  receive are more like ... "wildlife was here first and  people should either learn to live with it or move  into the city." Whichever side you subscribe to, the  truth is both notions are neither practical nor  attainable. Here's why.  Sandia Heights is located in dose proximi- ty to the Sandia Wildernes.5. The Sandias support  a diverse array of plant and animal species. Picture  the mountain as a shrinking oasis in the desert  able to support only a certain amount of plants  and animal5. Over the last fifteen years large tracts  of land have been developed on both sides of the  mountain. The animals that once lived in these  previously undeveloped areas are displaced and  forced to compete for shrinking resources such as  food and cover. As the city continues to expand,  more people take advantage of the picturesque  trails and open space. Hunting pressure is low, due  mainly to limited vehicle acoess and a restriction  on the use of firearms. For most wildlife inhabiting  the Sandia foothills, encountering people is com- mon and rarely results in anything negative.  Contrarily, many people take it upon themselves  to feed the wildlife either intentionally or by acci- dent So now the same animal5 that once had an  irU1ate fear of humans have become aa:ustomed  to their presence and are often rewarded in· the  process. The end result is that the search for food  and cover is extended to your neighborhood for  both predators and prey.  Encountering a Large Predator  People rarely get more than a brief glimpse  of either a cougar or a bobcat Coyotes, however,  <l!"e more commonly seen. Attacks on people by  either coyotes or bobcats are unlikely unless these  animals are cornered or somehow provoked.  Cougar attacks on people are also very rare, with  fewer than a dozen fatalities in North America in  more than 100 years. Most of the attacks are by  young, inefficient lions; generally those forced out  ~ hunt o~ ~eir own and not yet living in estab- lished temtones. In New Mexico, there has been  only one reported unprovoked cougar attack on a  person. A cougar killed an 8 year-old boy in  Arroyo Seco in north central New Mexico on  January 20, 1974. The 3 year-old sub-adult female  cat was in poor physical condition.  Although no studies have been conducted  on what to do lf confronted by a cougar, some pat- terns of behavior and response have emerged  based on observation. This information has been  compiled and the resulting guidelines are:  1. Stay calm. If you see a large predator that  hasn't seen you, calmly leave-the area.  2. Sto_p. Back away slowly while facing the  predator, if you can do so safely, while avoiding  eye contact Don't run as this might stimulate its  instinct to chase and attack. Give it plenty of room  to escape.  3. Do all you can to appear larger. Raise  your arms and open your jacket if you are wear- ing one. If you have small children with you, pro- tect them by pidling them up so they don't panic  and run.  .  4. Never ayproach. Wild animal<; are unpre- dictable; however, they will usually avoid a con- frontation unless pushed into one.  5. Watch for young. Coming between a  female a~d h~r young can be dangerous. If a  young animal IS nearby, try to move away from it,  being alert for others that might be around.  6. Convince it you're not Its prey. If the ani- mal approaches aggressively, arm yourself with a  large stick, throw rocks or any other available  object at it, speak louder and more finnly to it  Convince the predator that you are dominant and  a danger to it  7. Fight back. If the predator attacks, fight  back. Use any possible objects (rocks, sticks,  backpacks, caps, jackets, even your bare hands).  LITTERS ----oo TO THE EDITOR:  L ~  Please direct any articles, comments or cO<TeSpOOdence  -iiiiii;;;;;;::;;:;;:~:..;::::""":I to The Grit Editor, 1124Marigold NE  How to Llve Safely in Predator Country  For the reasons discussed in the first few  paragraphs, it should be dear that the presence of  predators is a fact of life for those living in Sandia  !-!eights. The physical removal of all predators by  either relocation methods or by killing them are  both physically impossible and socially unaccept- able. The issue is simply - what precautions can  you take to reduce the risk associated with living  in p~edator country. The professionals. at the New  MeXJco Department of Gaine and Fish urge you to  consider following these guidelines.  1. Closely supervise children whenever they  are playing outdoors. Make sure children are  home before dark and are not outside before dawn  (those times that large predators are most active).  2. Use landscaping practices that eliminate  hiding cover for predators. You do not have to  remove all vegetation, but remove enough so you  can detect a predator if it comes into your yard.  Make it difficult for them to approach unseen.  3. Install outside lighting, preferably with  motion sensors. light areas where you walk so  you can see a predator if one were present  4. Close off any open spaces below porches  and decks.  5. Planting non-native shrubs and plants  that prey species often prefer to eat encourages  wildlife to come onto your property. Predators fol- low prey.  6. Roaming pets are easy prey. Bring pets in  at night If they must stay out, then confine them  to a "kennel with a secure roof. Do not feed pets  outside where the pets or the food can attract  predators or other small animals, which the preda- tors prey upon.  7. Store all garl>age securely. Most predators  sighted in residential areas within their habitat do  no cause any damage. If a predator doesn't find  abundant food, it will move on.  8. Never feed wildlife. It attracts predators. If  you know someone who is feeding wildlife ask  him or her to stop. If they don't stop, contaCt the  Department of Gaine and Fish.  Who do you call7  The NM Department of Game & Fish is  responsible for managing, conserving and protect- ing most species of wildlife within the state. Your  concerns about wildlife are our concerns as well.  Additional information on living with large preda- tors is available from the Department  If a potentially life-threatening situation  wjth a large predator or ari lnjwy occurs, please  contact our Albuquerque office at 841-8881  Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm. After hours, rontact  the New Mexico State Police or Sheriffs  Department 'Ibey are provided with a list of  officers $at are on call. Cougar sightings in  residentlal areas shQykl be reported.  Although coyotes are not protected and  therefore do not fall under the jurisdiction of the  Game & Fish, information and assistance on deal- . in~ ~th a coyote problem is available through the  Wildhfe Services Division (formerly, Animal  Control) of the Department of Agriculrure.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SPRING - 1998  John J. Teahan, M.D.  Board Certified Ophthalmologist  Specializing In Laser VISion Correction  & No Stitch Cataract Surgery  6100 Pan American ·FWy, NE • Albq., NM 87109  CaJI Today For A FREE No ObUgation  RefrodJJJe Surgery Consultat1on  (505) 346-0500  IO'S Dteoount to Sandia H  ta R~ta  The precision you expect The attentton you deserue.  PARTNERS IN FITNESS  CERTIFIEO PERSONAL TRAINER  19 YEARS OF EXPERIENC E  CONVENIENT'LY LOCATED IN SANDlA. H EIGHTS  CALL (505) 797-7399  BILL WILLIS  {505) 296-3188  (505) 296-5552  Joe Sant1ngelo  OWMEA  Llcenae No. 10020  EUROPEAN  AUTOMOTIVE  SPECIALISTS  CLASSIFIED ADS  These non-commercial ads are  printed at no charge to members  of the SHHA and run for one issue  unless a longer run is requested.  Send info to the editor, call  856-1868 or fax 856-1792.  P/r Oill.DCARE WANTID 2 Weel<days, 8:30 t> 5:30. In  mt home. Ml.ot be kind, reliable and responsi>le.  Call Vll<i 856-1335.  WANTID. Reliable, ~  1een (or weekly yard  ~  at:! jOOs. Ml.ot a;.,,,. $1 Qt-.cu. Call 856-1980.  HOME AWAY FROM HOME FOR YOUl~ - For~  call Caroll al 856-1155.  Workout and did strategies/or maximum  mergy and leaner toned appearance  MERCEDES BENZ • PORSCHE • AUDI • BMW  SERVICE • REPAIR • PARTS  PET SITTIR- KallY)'1 Shaw, 7 )'95 old, v.ill waldl lnise  plarts, pets and ch bal¥iaing. 857 ·9236.  135 WYOMINC BLVD. NE AlSUOUEROUE, NM an23 lSOSI 256-3533  In 1tie Mountain Run Shopping Cennt"' ~-.d'll1ll.  -Poilt-fti  -Plou  Design & Paint Your Own Pottery!  275-9141  5850 Eubank Blvd., NE  Wo lk~tns Welcome• tirthdcry Parttes * Gttt Otrtil'ieates  Rekl Trk>s •Showers• Anvttme  NAVY BEAN&. CASHEW SALAD  1 rup broccoli Horets  1 rup oooked navy beans  1 /2 rup no-oil Italian dres.sing  1 head fresh spinach  1/4 rup toasted cashews  Grace Lutheran Church  'And my God ahd tLppY d )O(l' nHd according IO  Hir richu in pJoty by Christ Ju in.•  (Pl'l'lippl.m 4:1 Q)  Sunday SeMces: Sam, 10:45am  &may Schod: s ::ibain  (N\.n«y ...-1  7550 Eubank NE (Just south of Pas.o ditl Norte)  82Ml100  R•wirend RMwfaJJ L Golfw, Pubr  Beans to You!  NEED A SANDIA HEIGHTS BABYSITTER? Call Lesley  Lixl al 856-7909. She is 14 )'95 old. R.e!ponsible. rel~  able and res<ll.IO!ful.  HOUSESITTER. Mature, responsible, non-smoker ..  lrrmediarely available kir Ieng or slot ~  position. Will  care for pelS, planlS, etc. Other dulies negotiable.  Will funish reierences. 856-6996.  BABYSITTING (or 2 yea--Okls & LI'.'· Catie )Dins, 12 )'!!al'  old, 71h grader. Babysitting Certiftcalion from Carref~e  Girts. Certified in Oiild & lnf.n CPR. $1 .SO per hou- for 1  child. Reliable and lacs d 11.n i:Jr c:hilch'fl. 856-0963.  By Patricia Aaron - Home Economist  Cooperative Extension Service, NM State University  If one of your 1998 New Year's resolution.s was ro consume a better diet. con.sider beans.  Whether you're a country grandmother who has cooked beans for three generation.s or a bride who  needs the lOOlt nutrition for the least money, beans can supply your family with es,.;ential nutrition.  To make a commitment to health ~  diet, select a variety of foods that are low in cholesterol  high in both soluble and insoluble fiber, Tow in sodium, a good protein source, abundant in nutrients  and low in fat, especially sarurated fat. Dry beans qualify in all of these categories.  Beans are rich in iron, calcium, phosphorus and potas.5ium and high in fiber for maintaining a  healthy digestive tract Only 4% of chy beans' calories come from fat The california Dry Bean  Advisoiy Board reports that by adding beans to a low cholesterol diet, you can lower your cholesterol  level, Jessen your chance of heart disease and also help guard against some fOl111.5 of canceL Dry  beans have long been at the top of the USDA's list of foods with the lowest cost per gram of protein.  A conunon concern about dzy beans is the intestinal gas they cause. The problem is more  apparent for those who eat beans infrequently. To build ~  body's tolerance. eat small serving.5  initially, then slowly increase your intake. Drinking eight  of water each day will help your gas- trointestinal system handle the increased dietary fiber. Proper soaking and thorough cooking can  break down starches, making beans digestible.  For the preferred hot soak method for chy beans, add 1 O rups of hot water ro each pound of  chy beans. Boil five minute and remove from heat Cover and let stand up to 12 hows - a longer soak  time helps digestion. Discard the soaking water and rinse the beans. Add fresh hot water and other  desired ingredients and boil gently until desired tenderness is reached, usually one to two hours.  If you'd like furtherfuformation or recipes for chy beans, call me at 243-1386. Bon appetit!  •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  Steam broccoli until aisp-tendet Tos.s broccoli  and beans with dressing and chill. Wash and dry  spinach. Discard stems and tear leaves in bite-size  pieces. Toos spinach and cashews with bean mixrure.  Makes 2 serving;.  Relieve chronic pain!  Massage doesn't reach it. Chiropractic  can't adjust it. Your deep or chronic pain  may need myotherapy.  COOKING TIPS  t 'lb prevent skins from bwsting. simmer gently and  stir as little as pos.sible.  t Increase the oooking time in high altirude and hard  water areas.  t Add 1 Th>. of fat to reduce foaming.  t Add acidic foods like tomatoes, lemon juice, wine or  vinegar when the beans are almost teilder.  t Al lb. package of chy beans = 2 rups chy beans.  t 1 aip of chy beans= 2 to 2-112 aips cooked beans.  t Do not add baking soda. It destroys nutrient values.  t Plan ahead and cook exna amounts of beans.  Cooked beans can refrigerated up to 3 days or frozen  up to 6 months.  Back Pain • Headaches • Muscle Spasms • Neck Pain  Numbness• Hip Pain• Whiplash• Sciatica• Tennis Elbow  FEEL GOOD AGAIN!  FREE INITIAL CONSULTATION AND  50& OFF 1ST TREATMENT WITH THIS AD  TAIGG£l ,OINT  MYOTHERAPY  Lucy A. Garcia, T.P.M.  Board Certified I N.M. Lie. #1232  881-1214  Ask for our informative brochure.  PENN-MONT Professional Plaza, Bldg. E, Suite 14,  Albuquerque NM 87111 • Hours M·F 9-5  ~,~~~~ ~ 1·1  ~  i-~ ~ 1~ Oj . •.  !  If~~~~\  ""  £>.~ ~  =  \. _J_  '"Si  :!In:,,....  e  •  l  ~  c  l~~ ~ ~~  ""~N I.;::: CJ  ~§N ~~  ~ N  . ':r-:1  ~ N~~  ~  i I  :;- ~  i&"Q  (.l =  :J ~  g: >  Ill =:  ~~  if  a·-·  ....  £  rv  ~  ....  ~  ,....  !".:!  ~ ~O'  g- 00 s  ~ ~ ~  ~ ~~  z ~ ~  ~ C'::;  ~ ~ !f  ~ ffi  ~,,;{ . a.  ~ ...  .  ~- ~ ~ C3 ~  °' = .,, z  .:. c -j c  :!:.O 0 >  ..., ~:::: ::c  .... '° ?i !?!  ~'°"'Cl  ..., c = ::c  ~!"O-~  °'  )( VI  .:,, z..., ::c  °' ::: 0 0  ~ ~ s ?:  __ ,,,  V1  0  ~  ~  0  z  c  rn  IV  ;io  ~  <.!'>  )> c  ,... .  >  <.!'>  VI z  "  "" V>  ~ c :,, tx:I  ~~~~  -f ~ > 7'  zoo~  9 Cm -<  W,!TI '1J m  ~z~  ~ 0  Inside ...  President Message  Lighting Ordinance  1  Board News  2  Roundhouse Report  3  County Report  4  Communications  6  Winetasting  6  Govt Liaison  7  Security Report  7  Covenants  8  Sandia Land Claim  9  Resident Profile  10  MastetGardening  12  Plant ol the Season  13  Animal Ordinance  14  BioPark Programs  15  Sandia Happenings  16  Ranger's Report  17  Large Predators  18  Letters to Editor  18  Beans  19  Classifieds  19  ~  .  '  .  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION SPRING - 1998  BERNALILLO COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT:  Mail Theft on the Rise  by Ronni Sparlcs - Public Information Officer  Bernalillo County Sheriff Joe  Bowdich is alerting residents about a rash  of mail thefts in the area. "What we've got  here is someone taking outgoing and incom- ing mail from home mailboxes, and in at  least one instance, a mail collection box was  taken as well," he said.  "Many of the cases we're working  are in the North Valley, but there are other  thefts reported in the Far Northeast Heights.  Our concern is that there may be more thefts than what we know about  since this is the type of crime that is usually caught later," Bowdich said .  "What we know at this time is that thousands of dollars have been stolen  from unsuspecting victims. If mail is being stolen from your home, you  might not know it until you get your bank statement or you start getting  inquiries about why you haven't paid your bills. The suspect or SUS~  are altering your personal checks and then cashing them," Bowdich said.  Deputies say that at least 1 7 cases of mail theft are under active  investigation. The Bernalillo County Sheriff's Department is spearheading  this investigation with the Office of the Postal Inspector, since the theft ot  mail is a federal offense. Recently, Sheriff's Deputies at the North Valley  Command Center held an informational briefing with loss prevention repre- sentatives of many of the banking institutions.  Sheriff Bowdich and the U.S. Postal Inspection Service offer this  advice to protect yourself from mail thieves:  .  • Promptly remove mail from your mailbox after delivery,  especially if you are expecting checks, credit cards, food  coupons and other negotiable items. If you will not be home  when valuable items are expected, ask a trusted friend or  neighbor to pick up your mail.  • Always. deposit your mail in a Postal Service mail collection  box or mail slot at your nearest post office or hand your mail to  your letter carrier. Never place your outgoing mail for your car- rier to pick up in an unprotected mailbox or area where it can  be easily stolen.  • If you do not receive a check, food coupon or other valuable,  expected mail, contact the issuing agency immediately .  • Immediately notify your post office and the people you do  business with if you change your address.  "If you see someone in your neighborhood who does not beiong  and who may be acting in a suspicious manner, P,lease contact the Sheriff's  Department immediately at 798-7000, • said Sheriff Bowdich.  