The Sandia Heights community is addressing forest access issues to maximize trail use while protecting wildlife and property owners, with issues such as trespassing and parking being targeted for efficient management. Bob Williams, the Director of New Development, is overseeing the effects of new development, particularly on the west side of Tramway Blvd. The community encourages resident involvement on initiatives, such as US Forest Service's upgrading of foothill trails and the SHHA Board's help in handling community concerns. Williams' key role is assessing the impact of new projects on property values and the quality of life and invites members to share enquiries about development plans, zoning changes, and to help in the association's activities. Other news include: A call for proactive resident participation, following a low turnout at the last annual meeting. The necessity for residents to pre construction plan and get SHHA Architectural Review Committee approval before any construction or renovation, as emphasized by the Committee. Keeping the community clean and the options for avoiding ad delivery from the Door Store. The community's collective efforts in fire prevention, reducing Fire Department calls from 127 to 10. The different services provided by residents such as music training, massage therapy, and guitar instruction. Residents acting responsibly by adhering to speed limits and joining community groups. SHHA Architectural Review Committee further emphasizes the importance of pre construction planning and getting approval before starting projects. Plans for future enhancements to homeowners' appeals through potential remodeling, especially in areas of high traffic, are mentioned. Mary Jo McCarthy invites Sandia Heights residents to feature their homes in her Southwest Sampler magazine, shares the story of a roadrunner found in the community, and also mentions a discussion on potential grant sources for road construction project. Sandia Heights Homeowners Association talks about the cost of maintaining the Sandia Heights Park, the potential inclusion of usage fees, and planned signs of "Keep Dogs Off The Grass". Predictions show 12% of the city's population will be 65 years or older by 2000 with the fastest growth expected in Rio Rancho and the Westside. Classified adverts offering services, the Annual SHHA Holiday Crafts Bazaar, and US Coast Guard Auxiliary's free marine safety inspection for boats are mentioned. Finally, calls are made for increased resident involvement and to continue to enhance the quality of life in the area.