~ ·\rrnunl ·"' I-·\  Details on page 3.  Di~pointing  Ruling BreakS  Legal Inertia in_  Pueblo Claim  by John Thomas - Sandia Mountain Coalition  On December 10th, US District  Court Judge Harold Green acted on the us  Department of Justice motion to dismiss  the Pueblo of Sandia's land daim, denying  the motion. Judge Green's ruling allows the  Pueblo ID proceed with its case, and the next US  District Court ruling could be on the Pueblo's  motion last summer for summary judgment on  the merits of their entitlement ID 9,500 acres in  the Cibola National Forest, the Sandia  Wilderness Area, Sandia Heights North, l\erra  Monte and Evergreen Hills subdivisions.  judge Green's ruling still leaves two  motions pending: separate motions to intervene  by the Sandia Mountain Coalition (SMq and  individual property owners within the claim  area; and by the Bernalillo County Board of  Commis.5ioners. The SMC had agreed to wait for  a ruling on its motion ID inte!Vene until after  Judge Green had ruled on the motion ID dismiss.  Being designated as an "intervenor·  would allow the SMC to participate in the trial  and discussions of the merits of the Pueblo's  claim. With intervenor status, the SMC could  also appeal a decision adversely affecting the  daim area There i.s a possibility, however, that  judge Green will not permit the SMC thi.s vital  <KX:ess to proceedings, despite the impact of any  decisions on its members, according to Carol  Dinkins, SMC aruxney of reaxd with VlllSOn &  Elkins of Houston.  However, the disttict cowt opinion does  depart from a Pueblo ·pany line" regarding the  prim;:ry concern of owners of property within  the claim area In it, judge Green notes that the  Pueblo Lands Act would not allow Sandia  Pueblo ID exempt property without the consent  of the Secretary of the lnteriot Dinkins says her  furn 's research shows that the Pueblo probably  does not have the authority to "disclaim" pri- vate property, even with the consent of the  Secretary. From early in its claim, the Pueblo  has insisted it would exclude privale property,  In making his decision, judge Green  completely rejected the Department of justice's  case that Sandia Pueblo's claim was not "time·  barred" under the Quiet 71de Act, said SMC ro- chair Anita Miller (also chair of the SMC Legal  Committee). Under the Act. the Pueblo was  allowed 12 years ID make its claim known, but  had failed to 00 50.  During his deliberations, judge Green  was apparently impressed with the Pueblo's  request that the land be held "in trust" for it  by the Department of the Interior, a status that  would ensure all Pueblo demands regarding  the land would be met before those of other  area users. Despite the Pueblo's demand for a  "boundal)' adjusanent" - a "axreaed survey· of  the claim's eastern boundary and a reV1Sion  of the land patent so it would conform with  this correction - judge Green ruled that the  Pueblo's case was, therefore, not a claim for  "title" to the land, but merely'to have the land  held "in aust" for it  By asking for "in trust" status, the  Pueblo not only presented the judge with a  seemingly more acceptable request, but also  managed to dodge some legal restraints  regarding the transfer of land ownership;  both while retaining the option to later. at any  time, move the ·=· land into full, oullight  Pueblo ownership. While the land was "in  trust,· the Pueblo would control use of the area  because Interior, as trustees, would have to sat- i.sfy the Pueblo's needs before those of other  area users or the general public.  Because judge Green ruled that the  Quiet 71tle Act did not take the Pueblo out of the  running, it is now free to challenge the  Department of Interior's refusal to re-survey  Sandia Pueblo boundaries, according ID a sum- mary from Dinkins. Perhaps most surprising  was the judge's conclusion that Secretary  Babbitt's 1988 decision to deny the Pueblo's  request for a corrected patent could have been a  response to political pressure - chiefly from  senator Pete Domenici and Representative  The daim area being a Pueblo holding  would have enormous impact on Bernalillo  County, not the least of which would be an  enormous loss of taxes and other revenue, as  well as lass of public use and enjoyment of the  region's open space.  ·we shouldn't $ive up.· says Shannon  Gwbaxani, SMC co-chaiL "So far, judge Green  has only heard arguments about why the case  should be dismissed. He hasn't heard our  argument or evidence about whether the  Pueblo's case has merit We need to stick ID our  guns while those parts are being argued.·  Steve Schiff - and that Interior, in effea, owed a '-----.=------..'-' ~  favorable decision to the Pueblo.  Equally surprising, according to  Dinkins, was the judge's use of the Pueblo's  arguments without mentioning that they were  merely its allegations. These included poorayal  of the US Surveyor's wO!k in 1857 as •suspect•  and "inept.· although it had been confumed as  accurate and reliable by independent sources.  "It's still in our interests to have a  seat at the table during the litigatio·ns and  negotiations and ID have our interests satisfied,·  said Anita Miller.  ·we still believe passionately that the  mountain belongs to everyone," says SMC ro- chair Lynne Behnfield. "We are hoping for a  favorable ruling allowing us to be pan of thi.s  suit When the judge makes his move, we will  OOld a full membership meeting ID activate our  next plan of action," Behnfield says.  "Meanwhile, we will keep local and national  decision-makers informed.·  lllat  L--::-=--.i======------__::__J  THE GRIT  is published quarterly  as the official newsletter  of the  SANDIA HEIGHTS  HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  P.0 .Box 20021  Albuquerque, NM 67154-0021  Phone: 505-296-141 2  Fax: 505-296-2620  . E-mail: SHHA@nmia.com  Homepage: http://www.nmia.com/shha  BOARD of DIRECTORS  Anne Yegge  President  Bob Kemble  Vice President .  Ruth Friesen  Secretary  Rob Loughridge  Treasuter  DonAunapu  Marshall Aungier  Linda CaldWell  Jon Cashwell  Duke Colket ·  Jerry Grayson  Michael Gross  Chris Harmon  Don Hooper  Lester libo  Irene Middleton  Michael Pfeifer  Lorrie Rice  Margo Roberts  Toni Seidel  Robert Shilling  Robert Thomas  Claire Wilcox  Bob Williams  Ch~~~~'i~of  EDITOR  Carolyn Hindel  Call: 505-856-1868 Fax 505-856-1792  Write: The Grit, c/o Hindel Inc.  1124 Marigold NE, ABQ, NM 87122  PRINTED BY  lntermountain Color  W ednesdays 10am - Noon  f ebruar!J 12th  Helen Bergman.  1478 Morning Glory Road NE  823-1036  M arch 19th  Tamara Griffin  1558 Eagle Ridge Road NE  856-1283  April 16th  Susan Teresi  1480 Morning Glory Road NE  856-1669  AJI PeSdents of Sanclio Hts. welcome. Enjotj  conternpo•clPy apt f"""' the f;she, Golle•y.  A QUARTERLY. PUBLICATION OF  •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  County Of Bernalillo  70i.nlu rtlep.od  Thank you for your overwhelming suppon of the County's seven bond issues.  Although our need.5 far outweigh our mcome, with the approval of the bonds we  will be able to address some ofour more pres.5ing priorities. The benefits to County  Commis.5ion District N were articulated in the autumn repon and we look forward  to the implementation of the projects.  We learned recently that the City Council had moved some funds from the  Harper/Barstow Library project. Those funds were originally ear-marked for  another purpose and were moved back to the original intent The groundbreaking  for the library was initially scheduled for September Of 1996. We have been  assured the program will be delayed no later than March 1st The County and the  State have committed funds to the City for c.onstruction and for books and other  reference materials. We anxiously await this much needed facility.  Your neighbors in Nonh Albuquerque Acres have requested a lighting ordinance  to help protect otir beautiful dark skies. Since Sandia Heights will benefit from such  a regulation in NM, you may be interested in knowing the draft document has  been submitted to our legal department for review and soon will be going out for  public comment  High on the County's list of priorities i.s the acquisition and development of new  parks in the northeast quadrant. Tue County Parks and Recreation Department  has identified potential sites; however, some property owners have an unrealistic  expeaation of value. The quest continues.  Weren't you proud of our Public Works Department during the snow and ice  storms? They made such a valiant effort to keep roads open in Sandia Heights  and Nonh Albuquerque Acres, often beginning their work day at 2AM.  They deserve a great big thank you!  1997 i.s a promising year for Bernalillo County. We have new leadership on the  Commis.5ion, new challenges and a resolve to meet those challenges. I send my  best to each of you for a ffilfilling New Year:  Bernalillo County Commiss ioner  District 4  REACH YOUR LEGISLATORS BY E-MA IL!  A View from the Ranger's Station  National Forest  Service Wants  Your Input  'The Cibola National forest is currently  en~ in rewriting the forest Plan and woold like  to near your OO!lCfrnS and opinion.5. They have been  conduain p.iblic meetings to dmJss exi5ting condi- tions on ~  Sandia Ranger pjsttict and the furure.  What is most impOOant to you about the forest? ls it  an octivity, particular place. use, i;rodua, or just the  scenic beauty? What oouJd you "fik.e ID see fix your  chii:hen or a:.mmuniy if you relUiml in 100 yr!2l5I  1be final-.... wiD be February 5, 1997  at the Placilas ~ty Center, 41 camino de  ~~In  ~from~  to9pm. If you  are Wl3ble to attend, written conunents can be sub- mitted co the Sandia Ranger Station by March 5,  1997. Existing condition reports are available. call  ileYel\Y .de Gruy!fl fix mJre information- 281-3304.  Governor Johnson:  GOV@GOV.STATE .• NM.US  NM House:  NM_HOUSE@TECH NET.NM.ORG.  NM Senate:  NM_SENATE@TECHNET.NM.ORG  1:111111111111111111111:1  - - - ! Ask About Our Specials ! - - NEED STORAGE SPACE? - - - - NEED BOXES?  - - - - - - Come by  - - BEAR CANYON - - - - SELF STORAGE - - - - - - 4730 TRAMWAY, N E - - (just North of Montgomery - - Next to Giant &. Smith's) - - - - 292-2300 - - - - - - Ask about our Referral Plan! - - - a 1111111111111111111 a  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  League of Women Voters  FunCls Live PBS Broadcast  on Safe Drinking Water  By Charlotte Zerof - SHHA Communications, Chair  On March 19th, PB.5 will televise a live nationwide broadcast "Tools for Drinking  Water Prorectlon" from 12:30 to 2:00 pm MT, sponsored by the League of Women vote!S  US E.ducation FUnd. NMLWV and the New Mexico Environment Department (NMED) are  establishing sites aroond the state and providing them with telephones, faxes and monito!S  for the meetings.  Schedule of events - March 19th·  12:00 - Check national PBS signal  12:20- Welcome, overview  ~  12:30 - Tools for Drinking Water Protection  EJ iii __ .,,  2.-00 - Break  LIB~ =:::J  2:15 - NMED Sfate Panel moderated  •  by NMLWV  •  3: 15 - Local program, conclusion, collect evaluations  There will. in fact, be two telecasts. The nationwide program will end at 2:00, and  after a 15 minute break, a state satellite broadcast will be presented to discuss some of the  implications of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendmenrs of 1996 for New Mexicans.  71le Sefe Drinking miter Act Amendments if 1996 (PL 104-182) establish a new  charter far the nation's public water systems, states and the Environmental Protection  Agen<;J in protecting our drinking water resources. 71le amendments indude new preven- tion approaches, improved consumer iefonnation, changes in the regulatory program and  funding.for states and local water systems. President Ginton signed the Amendments on  Al{glist 6, 1996.  1Wo of the sires of public participation in New Mexico are in Albuquerque. One at  the UNM Continuing E.ducation Center and one at Intel. The site in Santa Fe is at the  Runnells Building. The New Mexico League of Women Voters web page  (http-Jlwww.nmiaoomilwvnrn) has a link to the national Drinking Water web sites for this  prognun. The information is updated regularly and worth viewing. Additional New Mexico  sires will be listed on their page.  Please pre-register by calling NMLWV at 884-8441  and indicating which site you prefer.  Charlotte Zerof  WINTER - 1997  We're  Communicating!  How About You?  Sandia Heighrs Homeowners Association has developed many  ways to commwlicate with residenrs. In addition to The Grit, we have a  web page, we put special notices in the utility bills and mail information  to members ~g  public meetings and hearings. In some cases we  have had inquuies via e-mail to which we respond in a timely manneL  Probably the best means of conummication is still the telephone and with  the SHHA office staffed by administrative assistant, Erin Frinkman,  homeowners get prompt replies to their calls and faxes.  This year the Guide for New Homeowners was revised and The  Grit has been a delightful publication providing unique stories about  Sandia Heighrs and some great photos. Residenrs are encouraged to sul>- mit articles, leaers to the editor and notices of interest for the commwlicy.  Let us all hear from you!  Communications Committee members meet lo discuss Gritty  issues, (I to r) Margo Roberts and daughter, Chair Charlotte Zerof,  President Anne Yegge, Erin Frink.nan and Linda Caldwell.  3nd Annual SHHA  If you con,  please brinq o fovorile  H ors d'oeuvres dish  AND o wrillen recipe.  W e pion lo feature !hem  in lhe nexl G Pil[  '  ~  Saturday , March 8  5:00 - 7:00pm  futures for Children ~ 9600 Tennyson NE  National Distributing will off er over 30 different wines.  ResePVCJtions and payment must be made in advance.  Pick up prepaid tickets at the door, no tickets will be sold there.  ....................................................  Vi'ine -CA;tinvt  RESERYATIO  r-------------------0---------------,  $8  per person  (Musi be over 21)  S ponsored by the  S andia Heights Homeowners  Association  Add .... - - ---------------------- Phone --------- I ce,lif" that eocb pe .. ion ollendinq h over 21 'Jeors or oqe.  Siqnolure _ ___________  _  Amounl enclosed ------ ($8p<• pe'5on) D  Please ch.ck  this box ;f  11ou ore brinqinq on  Hors d' oeuvres dish! ....  Send o..de• ond chocl lo, Wine Toslinq, Cloi•e W;lcox  I •  308 B;q Ho.n R;dqe  E, ABQ, M 87122  I  L-----------------------------------~  THE GRIT  AWARD WINNING  CUSTOM HOME BUILDER  NOW CONsidrniNG sElECT  ADDITIONS  AND REMODELS  iN youR NEiqHboRliood.  Also  BUILD TO SUIT  ON youR lm.  CAil foR A fREE coNsulTATiON  JOHN KALTENBACH HOMES  Everything you should expect  in a custom home builder.  P.O. Box 2lll4, AlbuQUERQUE, NM 87154  505-294-3533  Hrrp://wu.w. j kHoMES.COM  He died to take away your sins.  Not your mind.  You doni have to stop thinking when you walk  into our church. Our pastor is known for his  intelligent and thought-provoking sermons.  Come Join Us Sunday Morning!  Sanc~ia Presbyterian Church  Worship Services: 8:10am, 10:30am  Sunday School, all ages; 9:00am  Nursery available all services  Very active youth program and  extensive adult activities.  Counseling service available  to the community.  Rev. Dewey Johnson, Pastor  10704 Paseo Del Norte NE, Alb., NM 87122  (just east of Eubank}, 856-5040  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  The ARC and the Covenants  Reviewing The Situation  By Don Hooper - SHHA Architectural Review Committee, Chair  The Archit=ral Review Coounittee (ARC) of  the Sandia Heights Homeowner.; Association continues  its very active program of reviewing, approving  (or disapproving), and monitoring new consauction,  exieOOr modificalions and additions to exi5ting homes  tluoughout the community. The authority of the ARC  denves from the Declarations of Restrictions  (covenants}. which aa:ompany the~ to all proper- ty, residenoal and commercial, m each Unit These  covenants require plan submission and approval by  ARC for any consauaion or exieiior modification prior  to axnmencernent of work.  The ARC presently L5 compri5ed of five com- rni~e members: Marshall Aun~er, Jerry Grayson,  Chris Harmon, Don Hooper (Chair), lbni Seklel {Vice  -Chair) and one ex--Ollicio member, )on Cashwell (for- mer Committee Chair). We are very ably assisted by  Erin Frinkman, the SHHA administrative Assistant,  who maintains an files, plans and specifications; canies  OJt the committee correspondence; fields most of the  resident inquiries: and keeps the committee members  updated on the activity starus of the projects under  comrnittre rontrol. 'fypically, at any given time, there  are from 15 to 20 projects in the review/ approval stage  and 40 to 50 projects in construaion or pending. 11te  entire rommittee meets twice a month, however, dis- aJSSions and meetings among individuals continue on  nearly a daily basis.  Most new consuuction in Sandia Heights con- si.51:; of inlilling, whereby homesites previousfy passed  over due to design or other site difficulties are now  being developed with ever-increasing house sizes due  to ever-increasing property values. Difficult sites, cou- pled. with more stringent County erosion setback  reqwrements, are resulong m a growing number of  architecturally demanding _l'rojects. Funhermore,  ~  are understandab!y reluctant to to accepc  the inevitable construenon on nearby sites that have  been long vacant. in some cases believed unbuildable  and have become pwtofthe open view space to which  they are accustomed. These circumstances are ever  more challenging to the committee in meeting its  responsibilitie to the community as a whole while rec- ognizing the prospective owner's tight to develop their  property in a reasonable manner within the scope of  covenant restrictions.  Upon receipt of an application for consouction  and/or modification by the ARC, it is reviewed for com- pleteness and then assigned to a committee member  for derailed review. The application must be accompa- nied by plans and other information to sufficiently  describe the projea. If the groond area or "fooq>rint" of  the building or addition is 500 feet or more, a drainage  and grading plan by a civil engineer must be prepared  for submission to the Cooney as well as ARC. County  approval in writing is necessary for ARC to. complete  the application. If circumstances require a neighbor  review, tha;e alfeaed who are members of SHHA are  advi5ed in writing of a date to view the plans and sub- mit axnments.  The ARC srudies plans for compliance with the  covenants for the specific unit in which the property  lies, to indude the following;  • height of structure.  • setbacks.  • colors (finish and trim).  • harmony with the surrounding neighborhood.  • compliance with all other restrictions  in applicable covenants.  Occasionally, variances to the  covenants may be granted, but only  after careful consideration and  derailed disrussion by the commit- tee as a whole. There will  be more on valiances in a  future issue of The Grit.  For approved applications,  the assigned committee  member visits the con- struction site at least  ,,..._..-._ ....  once every two  weeks until com- pletion to ensure  compliance.  It is  important that  all residents of Sandia Heights,  whe!her Association members  or not, recognize that any  new construction, exterior  renovation, additions, and major landscaping need to  ~ through the ARC awrovaJ process. This also applies  to any solar equipment, extenor air-Oll1ditioning/heat- ing equipment, antennas, satellite receiver dishes,  walls, fences, storage sheds, re-stuccoing, painting,  patioo, patio cover.;, decks, swimming pools and other  work affecting the exterior appearance of the structure.  There are approximately 32 Units in Sandia  Heights, each having its individual and unique  covenants. Some of the above items are specifically  co~. iJ1' certain .covenants, but noc in others, or only  by unplication. If m doubt, please conraa the commit- tee through the SHHA office at 2%-1412 for clarifica.  lion. Please oontact the office ro report any covenant  violations or construction thought to be proceeding  without ARC approval. V\o1alions are hand1e4 by lhe  separate Covenant Suppon Coounittee.  Establishments in the commercially-zoned  areas within Sandia Heights also must comply with the  applicable Unit covenants. They must subinit to the  same ARC approval process for any new construction  or changes such as tha;e described above, as well ~  signage, lighting, parldng facilities and the like, regard- less of any permits/approvals issued by County agen- cies. It should be noted, however. that although· ARC  has review authority over architectural design, SHHA  has no veto authority or legal intervention potential  over commercial developments that are in compliance  with Coonty zoning ordinances and building codes and  applicable Sandia Heights covenants.  It should seem clear from the above, that the  ARC has its hands full. All members are volunteers,  and all, I think, find their panidpation challenging and  rewanling. However, the committee L5 presently under - staffed and we would appreciate hearing from any  A.5sociation member who might be interested in joinin  the Board to wO!k with us. A call to 2%-1412 wo~  be sincerely welcomed.  WATER CONSERVATIVE IANDSCAPE  AND APPROPRIATE USE OF  PLANT MATERIAL  • Residential or Commercial  • Native and Traditional Landscape  •Designs  • Sprinkler & Drip Irrigation  Design and Installation  • Degreed Horticulturist On Staff  "Licensed And Insured Since 1974"  520 MONTANO RD NW  GB98, MS-6 LIC # 027657  344-4448  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  Creating a New Transit Plan  ... continued.from cover page.  Lack of mobility options hits home  the minute we don't have aa:ess to our car.  If it's in the shop or for some o!her reason we  can't drive, we have no alternatives. And that  is the case every day for seniors too old to  drive, young people too young to drive, mobili- ty-impaired residents unable to drive and those  unable to afford a car:  The need to expand transit services is  evident to most people in the region. The ques- tion is: How do we do it? Answer: In 1995,  Bernalillo County completed a Feasibility Srudy  which confirmed that:  • markets for transit already exist in  the region, and many commute trips could be  caprured by expanded services;  .  • the institutional model best suited for  expansion is an independent transit authority  which could plan and implement a broad range  of transit services tluoughout the region;  • a dedicated funding source for a tran- sit authority would be required to support long- range planning for light rail and o!her capital- intensive investments;  • a regional, market-based transit ser- vr.e plan is needed to justify increased invest- ment in transit services.  Public involvement is the key to  developing a good transit service plan.  Expansion of services should be market-seg- ment based and should be designed to acrom- modate major commute patterns as well as  non-work trips. The plan must provide a scrate- ·  gic geographic travel demand in local areas as  well as tluoughout the entire region. In 1993,  the Albuquerque City Council appropriated  marching funds for a federal grant to deveJoP a  regional transit plan. The Transit Oepartmenc  has eslablished a 'JechnicaJ Team to which all  counties, municipalities, pueblC6 and o!her large  institutions in the region have been invited to  appoint representatives. The 'Jeam is working  with a consultant to draft a plan which will  indude a variety of types of transit services and  propose a funding and management structure  ror a regional authority.  An expanded transit system would  look "Vey dilferent from the present system.  N<X only would it indude the large buses you  see on the streets of Albuquerque today, transit  seIVice would also indude:  • neighborhood service with small  buses or vans that cirtulate in neighborhoods  or rural areas and feeds fixed-route commuter  express buses;  • improved transportation services for  elderly and handicapped which are coordinated  with ADA-mandated parattansit services;  • expanded park and ride services;  • conventional fixed-route bus service  along major streets;  • improved ridersharing, bicycle and  pedestrian commute programs;  • long-term planning for light rail or  other high capocity modes along priority routes.  For more ir!(onnadon on how ,your  C1Jmm1D11C,y can get involved, please r(/er to  the box on the t»Ver page if'/he Grit.  Xeric  Garden  Club  of ABQ  will meet  February  15th and  March  15th.  Call  268-8305  for more  info.  Everyone  welcome!  W INTER -1997  Trees Need  Their Prunes  By Shirley Medina - Master Gardener  When planning a landscape, one of the first consider- ations should be where the type of 1ree you want will '§OW  best Is there pleny of roorn for its branches to spread? Is it in  an area where its roocs won't tangle in underground utility  lines? Do you need it to shade a certain part of the house? And  perhaps, less obvious but just as important, what kind of  "winter interest" will this tree lend to the landscape?  In lll05t of our natural or xeric landscapes, the low  shrubby forms of lll05t of the ~  do not seem to be as  outstanding in the winter as they are in the sununer or fall.  Trees which have been well-chosen for their distinctive  branching shape or color during the winter, will not only add  beauty to youc yard but also value and protection to youc  home when other plants are not at their best So when you  decide on a landscape plan. don't forget to indude trees!  The next step is to keep youc 1rees lit Besides water- ing and izing. 1rees need to be pnmed_ l'.ate winter is the best  time, espedaily for deciduous trees. F\ist; take a good look at  the tree and tag the branches to be removed. Pruning should  not be severe and should be limited to the foUOwing: dead  wood; stubs; suckers; sprouts; broken or diseased branches;  aos.5ing. rubbing or crowded branches;,and long or awkward- looking branches. Topping is not n appropriate pruning  method, and will onl:r, cause'1he tree to be grotesque. weak  and evenrually lead to death.  ~make  sure Y911f pruning equipment is clean  and sha!p-:ti~~. jagged cuts will endourage disease and  decay. Scissor-style hand pruners will cuc smaller branches  up to 112· in diameter  ng-handled loppers will cut  branches up to 1-3/4 • thiCk. A bow saw will be needed to QJt  larger limbs. Hopefully, if pruning has been maintained  through the life of a tree, such ~  c:ucs will be unnecessary.  For hard to reach places, a prurung saw or a pole pruner  will come in handy.  Pe<haP5 lhe most <limcult jlWt o! pnmlng \s ~  how to do it properly. This takes praclice, but don't despair.  The following basic tips will help you get stalled:  I. Young trees (1-2 yearsold): Prune sparingly, only  damaged or badly crossing branches, and no more tlian one  foot up the main trunk fro!n the bottom. Using hand pruners.  QJt back to the tree or to a bud. The cuc should be slanted  slightly in the same direction as the bud and slightly above it  2. Maturing trees (3-4 years old): Prune only  crossing or awkwardly placed branches on upper portion or  the 1ree. Lower branches may be shortened but noc removed at  this time. Use hand pruners, loppers or a pruning saw, depend- ing on the thiclness of the branch. Cut as dose to the branch  collar as possible without injuring it, at a slight angle. Do not  prune on a venide line with the !!ee.  3. Manuing trees (4-5 years old): Prune only awk- wardly placed branches. Lower branches can now be removed  without causing disruption in tree growth or sun scald.  4. Mature trees: Branches removed from large trees  muse be cut in steps. First cut off the major portion of the  branch to within two feet of the IIUllk. Then cue just outside  the branch collar, being sure not to QJt into the IIUllk.  Remember not to leave long stubs or tear branches  off. dead wood should be pruned down to healthy wood and  suckers should be pruned to the ground. Cut only to the  branch colllar (swollen area at the branch base). Position hand  pruner or lopper blades closest to the branch that will remain  on the tree (or the shortest stubs.  If after reading this, you decide to hire someone to  prune youc trees, make sure they are certified, liability-insured  arlxxists. If someone tells you that youc !!ees need ropping. it's  a strong indication not to hire that person. There's information  on quali1ied ar!Jorists in the Yellow Pages or call the County  Extension Service at 243-1386 for an H-156 Pruning Guide.  SUmmer-0.owering shrubs (except roses) can be  pruned now. Roses should nm be pnmed until late March  tluough mid-April. Lilaa;, forsythias and other spring-flower- ing shrubs should llilt be pruned until after they've bloomed.  Landscape Classes at the ABQ Garden Center  Saturdays, 9am - Noon - $10 each  March 1: Native Plants - Judith Phillips  Mardi 8: Ucti and Sucwlents for the Yard- Ralph Peters  MASTER GARDENER HOTLINE  :~-~~ 292-7144  ~~~~:~  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Trail News at Elena Gallegos  i------.. --------------------.. -.. -.·  •:  TRAILWATCH  •:  !•  VOLUNTEER  :•  Many of you may have nOOced an ~  in trail building at Elena  Gallego;. Wtth the annual visitation at the park exceeding 150,000 people,  the Open Space Division is aying to keep up wilh the demands placed upon  the area's natural resources. Several ttail projects are underway or being  oornpleted. including the Simms Park Road nail, a new narure trail and other  renovations throughout the Sandia~.  'lbe Simms ParX Road nan  The park canmonly referred to as Elena ~  is officially known  as Albert G. Simms Park, named after rancher, banker and politician who  r-m:hased much of the Elena~ Land Grant in the 1930's for $1.00 an  acre. Upon Simms death in 1964 the land was left to the Albuquerque  Academy and a ponion of this land was purchased by the City of  Albuquerque in the 1980's.  The Simms Park Road nail stuts at the namway nail and paralJel.5  Simms Park Road to the enay boah at the park. There is al5o a horse spur  which stuts to the nonh of Simms Park Road where ltarnway Boulevard  crossed the Pino Arroyo. The horse trail follows the arroyo before crossing  Simms and joining the main trail up to the park~ Work on this trail  ~  completed the end of last year.  'lbe New Nature nan  The Open Space Operations SeaXin is currently  · a new  wheeldlair acressible Narure nail. This trail will stan at ~g  IC(  area and restroom facility loca!ed to the north of Kiwanis Picnic Area The  trail will be i;eved with earth-toned oorx:rete, have three wooden bridges OWf  anoya; and will be awroxirnatelY one third of a mile in length. There will be  inlfrprelive signs and iest areas ·a1ong the  . This trail will hook up with  the existing narure trail at the wildlif~d overlooking the pond.  Consttuction began in July with volunteelS from the Kiwanis Club roughing  out the trail and preparing the area for the Open Space Operation crew.  Complelion is expeaed some time this year, weafier pemiitting.  YOU!h Con.9ervatlon Corps  This summer the City of ABQ Open Spare Division and the Sandia  Disaia of the US Forest Se!vice Conned a partnership to a:lrninister a state  grant for a Yruth Consefvation Corp (YCCJ progxarn, providing young people  !Jetween 16 and 25 with outdoor oonservation ;ills. The YCC can be traced  bock to President Roosevelt's New Deal (Ovilian Conservation Corps of the  1930's), responsible for much of New Mexico's State Park development and  extensive work with the US Forest Service. The YCC is continuing this  tradition by providing trail crews for Open Space.  Now that school is in session, the YCC program will continue  tluough the cooperation of the APS Work Study Program, which allows high  school . .  and senkJrs to  take !~lasses in the  morning and work in the  afternoon. A great deal of  progress rebuilding and  stabilizing the tram at Elena  Gallegos Picnic Area was  aided by these youths. So  next time you see YCC out on  the trail5, teD them to keep up  the~work.  nan ma1ntaiance  Maintainin~ those  unpaved hilcing. biking and  horse trails on Open Space  lands is an  ·  job. Once  a trail is buik,~ soli is  exposed to the enSve natural  forces of wind, water and  time. It is irnponant to  remember that erosion is a  natural JJ!OCt$ which, given  enough time, can create a  wonder such as the Grand  •:  ORIENTATION  •:  It  l J  •,  February 22, 1997  • 1  ',  9AM to 3:30PM  •a  It  l J  1,  Open Space  • 1  •, Administrative Offices • 1  ! ' 3615 Los Picaros Rd. SE : a  t  •  '• Pre-registration required • 1  1,  by February 21  1 a  It  I J  •, Call ~73-6620 for more • 1  •,  mformat1on  • 1  I  I  .~-----------------------------!  Canyon. But these natural forces are acx:elerated by the actions of human use.  We build ttail5 in order to rninimiz.e human impact on the landscape. By limit- ing the access of users to designated trail5, we are preserving the rest of our  environment Please help us and follow some fundainentals of nail etiquette:  • Use only offidal designated tram. Do not aeare your own trails!  • Ranember rnC6t trails are multi-use. Be couneoos and share them.  • Mountain bikers should conttol speed at an times.  • AD users should avoid gping out on traiL5 after heavy rain or  snow melt to rninimiz.e damage to fragile soils.  nail Closures and Reroutes on the Pino nail  Certain wunaintainable trails were c!a;ed by the Open Ul'f--.fr  Space Divi5ion and rerootes were built to provide more Slable tread.5.  A mix of native gJ:a5SeS is planted on old routes and keeping people off is the  first step to reclamation. If enough moisrure reaches the seeds (and this  winter looks promising), the old traiL5 should be barely visible by swnmet  Pick up the l<ir& 1laif Guide at the park entrance before venruring into our  wonderful reaeaOOnal area.  Welcome ~s  About  Retirement Living.  Bear Canyon Estates Is Now Re·nting.  If you're looking for affordable, gracious retirement living, here's welcome  news. Bear Canyon Estates Retirement Residence in Albuquerque iS now  renting, and it's almost ready for you to move in.  Your monthly rent includes: • three delicious daily meals • a spacious  studio, one- or two-bedroom apartment • housekeeping and linen service  • paid utilities • Resident Managers • planned activities • local transportation,  and much more. Cottages are also available. Plus no buy-in fees or leases ever.  A $100 refundable deposit will reserve the apartment of your choice.  Call (505) 292-9191 today for more information, or stop by for your personal  tour. A warm welcome - and gracious retirement living - is waiting for you  at Bear Canyon Estates.  Bear Canyon Estates  N  ~ I  a·  f  ffi Be":_.~Jon  -·- I\ Lal\rima De Oro/  MOOI!i1,;0met\i  Holiday R.etimnent Corp. - Serving Seniors Since I9n.  Gracious lfrtirc111c1  4440 Morris Street NE  rt L1ri11g  Albuquerque, N ew Mexico 87111  --------t (505) 292-9191 .... t ------~  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  Stop Whining ... Start Tasting!  By Claire Wilcox - SHHA Community Services, Chair  3rd Annual Wine Tasting-March 8th, 5-7pm - $8  SHHA Secretary,  Ruth Friesen, toasts last  year's tasty evening.  NEW  HOMEOWNERS  IN SANDIA  HEIGHTS-1996  Whining bout the bad weather or your New Year's resolutions?  Well here's some good news that should change your spirits!  This will be our 3rd annual wine tastin$ and as in past years will be  held at Futures For Otiklren, 9600 Tunnyson (right iDOSS from Circle K. This  year we're decreasing the tick.et p!ice and requesting that you bring an appe- tizer to aa:ompany our wine offering;, but it isn't required. If you have a spe- dal hors d'oeuvres ro share, bring your creation and a card with the recipe.  We'll lXlblish it in a larer edition of The Grit. (Bur if you want to keep Granny's  H<X chili recipe a secret, omit the card - just bring the Chili!)  There's a reservatio!I form in your Sandia HeiJlhts bill and one here in  the Grit on page 3. They must be returned by Mardi !st. The Wuie 1llsting  i.5 from 5-7pm thi.5 year so you can continue your evening and go out to  dinner afterwards.  IT'S MARCH! SO COME IN LIKE A UON - INVITE A NEIGHBOR OR FRIEND TO nns  "WINEDERFUL" EVENI'I  There's a refurbished Bulletin Board for your use at the  SHHA P.vi< on So.! Bernardino and Tramway. Oieck it out.  Recyclables Added to List  Starting in January, the following additional items will be accepted for recydiog:  Maga2ines. ComputeJ' ~Phone Books & Junk Mail  Please separate maga:rjnes and newspapers and either lie your newspapers in bundles or put them  in paper bai?;s. We use the papers as •bricks• to build a wall in the recyde container behind which we can  throw the afuminum cans, plastX: jugs and cardboonl.  . . F.ach. month. as ~ anenqx at erology education. we are eno:maging Sandia Heights youlh. groops  to pamopare Ill the recycling prograllt They are wonderli.tl at stDmping down the jugs and aluminum cans  so we can load the recycling container more efficiently and oompletdy. So ~ the Sandia Heights 4-H Qub  (Andrea Carvey, Leader), Boy Scouts (l.awie \Wliams, leaderi and North Albuqueique Acres Oti1dren 's  Horse Association (Diane Severns, Leader) have been a great help. The latter group uses the money they get  from the aluminum cans to proWle needed articles for a riding dub for disabled children. And the  4-H  Oub i.5 purting together a recyde sign with examples of accepGlble and W1aCCCpGlble plastics which will be  displayed al the sire in the furure.  .  . W~ are aware of the new drop-off center opened in the Smith's parking lot on namway. we will be  morutoring tts sua:.ess and commitment to recyding in the long term.  Many thanks to the ioiiowtng volunteers for their help:  In Noyembex  In Pecernber  lnJa!lllalY  Bob OWens  Marv Henderson  ·  Sam Bensonhaver  ~ Brinker  Jeff~ Stephanie Brinker  eOttmer  y Hartfield  Sam Bensonhaver  ohn Simmons  vid Wilcox  John Thomas  Luftschein  Mary Henderson  Jay Hartfield  Arnold Ronnebedt  N.Alb.xruemue Acres  ~  Debbie, ~~  -~-~~~Assn- JamesVillenueva  Ashley A.J  Lindsey Schultz  Alex Weill  Kirsten Severns  ~  P-.uks  Diane Severns, Leadec  An  Hu.ffsfodt  Da  Goll7.ales  ft WHERE: CIRClf KON TRAMWAY  •  . , ~ WHEN: 1ST SATURDAY Of THE  ,. f'  MONTH, SAM-12 NOON  Waat ta ~elp?  Call B5B·B282.  WINTER - 1997  Claire Wilcox  I  ~.n  I Calling all Doers~  Special Interest Groups Fonning  Calling all enthusiastic newcomers and all  established, long-term residenrs of Sandia Heighrs!  Come join your new and old neighbors in forming  some fun and novel interest grouµ; thar tickle your  fancy. Are you curious, or ~  pas.5ionate about  exploring new territory - cettain ~vities or topics - with like-minded souls?  •  1llke the plunge and ay one or two of the fol- lowing activity groups: narure hikes; birdin~ve  wriring; drawingtpainting; book reading!  · n;  womens' chorus; once-a-rnonth-outing.5 seeking out- rageously divine restaurants or rich and unusual des- tinations in Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Taos and sur- rounding areas.  We are now ~vely forming special interest  group; and antidpate having initial meeting around  the 2nd or 3rd week in Februruy. Please call Holly  Wilkenfeld, the contact person for formation of  these groups, at 821-7204. If you don't hear back  right away, don't give up, please ay again! Do some- thing different and join us (or some good times.  Double ~gle  Before/ Affer  School Program  Starts  Bernalillo County Parks and Recreation  Department is offering a Before/ After School  Recreation Program for children attending Double  Eagle ElementarY. It includes ans and crafts; gross  motor, leisure skills programming; and field trips  almost every Wednesday. Snack times are available,  but snacks are ncx provided. The recreational scaff i.5  exceptional and quality programming i.5 provided at a  reasonable cost.  Prices are as follows:  BEFOBE SOiOOL: .lS!..dJik1  M!jtiona] child  $55 Imo.  $32.50/semester  AfI'ER SOiOOL: $70/mo.  $32.50/sernester  For TTWre b]fonnatlon. please call Daniel Garr:ia,  SlteSupeTvlsorat 797-9607.  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION O F  Clean Air Enthusiasts Can Breathe a Little Easier  By Carolyn Hinde/ - Grit Editor  Tuke in a deep breath of fresh air  and be glad we live where we do.  . Albuquerque has met federal clean air stan- dards for the last 5 years, but if the city  grows as predicted, the challenge to  improve our air quality will g;:ow with it  Since I'm into brearhing, I decided to honor  an invitation from the city to see what  they're doing about this inevitable problem  I attended the Grand Opening of  the ABQ 1iansit Department's Compressed  Natural Gas (CNG) Fueling Facility on  January 8th. Sound exciting? It actually  turned out to be quite a winter morning.  Mayor Chavez was there to assist Anne  Watl<ins, ABQ 1iansit Director with ribbon  cutting and introductions. Also attending  were Blake Rideway, PNM Sr. VP of Energy  Services, City Councilwomen Ruth Adams  A  Mayor Martin Chavez ruts the ribbon at dedication of the  new Compressed Natural Gas Fueling Facility. On the far left  is ABQ Transit Dept Director, Anne Watkins.  and AnneMarie Chenowetch, President of  Neoplan USA, which is building the new CNG  buses for the city.  1 learned why clean-burning, compressed  natural gas fuel is one of the most significant environ- mental steps ever taken in Albuquerque. It reduces air  pollution, is safe, and is more economical than tradi- tional gasoline and diesel fuels. CNG vehicles will  result in the reduction of 90% of carbon monoxide,  50% of nitrogen oxides and 85% of rea'.:tive hydrocar- bons (the principal ing;:edient in smog). CNG engines  don't emit smoke. Fewer engine deposits mean fewer  tune-ups and oil changes. Groundwater pollution is  eliminated since CNG is a gas and non-<:00ooive.  The safety advantages are numerous. CNG is  the same fuel used in homes to operate many of our  The Mayor tries out the wheelchair assist device  on one of 40 new NeoPlan CNG buses  being built for the city in Lamar, Colorado.  ...  The old maintenance facility is  being upgraded for the new buses.  Jerry Montoya, is one of the  very able maintenance mechanics  experienced in the new  CNG technology.  1 ~111 1 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 111 11 1 1 1 1 1 111111111 1 11111111111111111111 1 11111111111 1 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 ~  'Ii I  Clean Carpet  Th~~~:s~~ ~;:~m I  ~  I  Altracti ng Residue and  ~  1§  li'I  Ne"\N S y stem 1"-eep s It C le<l n  Dnesin HalftheT1me §  =  T vvo  Whol e  Ounochnicimoffcn Clean Furniture =  r~;~isibl~d::.:h~);~:~~  Room s Hou s e  andlorsP?ts. OnlyS9  additional per rOflm.·  *Owned and  operated by  Sandia Height5  Four Room~ & ll;ill  Residents.•  ~  _2_4_H_ r-Ju_ R_ W_A_T_E_R  A L BUQUERQUE  21 Yic.\HS lc xP ERJENCE  ~  ...  DAMAGESER\'ICE ~  29 8 8880  ~  !io~ ~.::'-:.'~ .. ::::::.'!...  ~-····•···-- ··· · ....  - ~ llll l lllllllllll 1 11111111111111l~llllJl~~l 1 1~1111111 1 111111111111 1 11 111 1 11 11/lllllllllllll l l l l l llllllllllll l ll l lllll lll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllll  OFFER# OQL-1 B  1  stoves, furnaces and water heaters. For transit  vehicles, however, it must be compressed into  enough volume to be a practical and portable.  Thus the fuel system construction is mechani- cally stronger than its gasoline counterpart, so  there's less likely to be damage in a collision.  If a leak occurs, natural gas will simply dissi- pate into the atmosphere beamse it's a vapor  as opposed to a liquid and lighter than air.  CNG has an ignition point two times  higher than gasoline and a very narrow range  offlarnmability, making it safer to use. A  nationwide study of 21 CNG fleets, with a total  of 434 million miles combined, showed that  injury rates were reduced by 84%.  After touring one of the 6 impressive  new Neoplan buses with Mayor Chavez,  everyone headed for some warmth and some  lunch in the main offices of the Transit  Authority at 601Yale Blvd. But I really wanted to see  who was behind the sign touting "the best mainte- nance personnel in New Mexico."  I was fortunate enough to meet Joe Montoya,  a 17 year veteran on the team of 40 or so very able  maintenance mechanics. He took the time to ~ve me  a private tour of the "state's largest CNG fueling sta- tion" and the facility where all tlie old and new vehi- cles will be serviced. It's Joe's job to learn and imple- ment the new technology. "It's a completely different  engine and fueling system," he pointed our as we  compared an old gasoline intake line with the new  compressed-gas valve. The entire maintenance area is  being renovated to accommodate the new CNG vehi- cles, which will include 40 Sun 1tan buses, new Sun  'Itolleys, Sun Vans, and Sun Shunle and staff vehicles.  Joe says most of these need different lloor-lift designs,  equipment parts and work space for servicing.  Joe Montoya was one of seven mechanical  technicians chosen from New Mexico to supervise  maintenance of the transit system for the city of  Atlanta during the 1996 Olympics. He spent two busy  weeks making sure everything was "running" outside  the Olympic stadiums as wen. He enjoyed r:Jle experi- ence and did Albuquerque proud (even though some  people in Atlanta never heard of New Mexico).  All the mechanics are being trained in the  new technology by Neoplan instructors as part of the  City's contract. Older GMC buses made in Detroit will  eventually be replaced by new "clean gas"  vehicles.The City hopes to have half of its public tran- sit fleet CNG powered by the end of 1997. Joe says a  CNG bus can rack up 400 miles before refueling,  which takes only about s to 7 minutes at the 1iansit's  new Fueling Island.  After admiring a new 43-passenger Sun 1tan  with lift-U wheelchair access, wider aisles and rooftop  climate control, I thanl<ed Joe Montoya profusely and  headed guiltily to my gas-guzzling Single Occupant  Vehicle. Okay, I wasn't that guilty but I did think  about it Albuquerque intends to give people choices  besides the SOY, so that we don't s  become a Phoenix or a Lo5 Angeles  where dirty air and frayed tempers  have burgeoned with the popula- tion. A breath of fresh air, indeed,  and worthy of our support.  HOUSE & PET SITTING  S TA Y IN YOUR HOME  OR  DA IL Y VISITS  MATURE RELIADLE ADULT  REFERENCES  JANICE  299-4768  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  HAPPY 1997 FROM THE SANDIA HEIGHTS SECURITY PATROL!  l1me to Think Crime Prevention  HERE ARE SOME IMPORTANT TIPS:  • Put your address on both sides of your mailbox. Yoo ·u be easier for Security, the Sheriff's  Department and the F1re Department to find as quickly as poosible. If yoo have a group mailbox. please put  your address numbers in a prominent, well lit area.  ·  • can your alann company to update imixxtant phone numbers. Indude our mobile nwnber and  gj.ve them the name of a reliable pany enttusted with your key and oode.  • can Security before you leave town, so we can put a heavier watch on your home. Make emer- gency names and numbers available. We check foc strange vehicles, lighlli in.5ide and newspapers in your  driveway.  • Form a neighborhood Watch  Program. Among the 31 subdivisions in Sandia  Heights, only 5 such programs have been  established. SWdies show that Watch Programs  typk:ail reduce residential burglaries, vandal- i.sm :I' theft by 30% <Nes: a two year period.  • If you don't like door-to-door sales- men, put up "NO SOLICIT1'J10N" signs near  your front entrance.  ·  • Report suspicious vehicles, persons  and activities to the Sheriff and the Security  Patrol It's impassible to patrol eves:y neighbor- ·  hood 24 hours a day. Yoo can be the eyes and  ~  that help to protect our community.  The Security Patrol  Pager Number (822-2500)  1s no longer in service.  Please call the mobile phone  at 269-3991  or the manager at 856-6347  to reach the guard on duty.  With anr emergency,  do not hesitate to call 911.  Sanitation Engineers,  .  · Fred Gessner and Danny Sullivan  Sanitation D~rbnent  . REMIN  RS:  • Refuse containers should be  at rurbside bY 7 AM.  • 40 lbs. maximum per bag.  • 10baglimit  • Newspapers & magazines  must be bagged.  • Moving boxes must be flattened.  • All yard waste must be bagged.  • No open piles of weeds or  chamisa will be picked up  per COlllty ordinance.  Conmercial haulers and  landscapers should be used.  • Special pick ups, such as household  refuse, move in/out items & yard  dean up should be scheduled  . on Mondays of each week.  ROOM  ~ ADDITIONS  • Deluxe Master Suites  • Spacious Kitchens  • Luxurious Baths  ('\  ""U  The !Jed new ~  home may be the  one you're living in.  ~~- 2426 Washington NE/2 blocks S. of Menaul/883-4040/ uc. • 21sso  John Evans,  Sandia Heights  Security Patrol  SANDIA HEIGHTS  SECURllY PATROL RESPONSES  January- December 1996  TYPE OF CALI.:  NUMBER:  Alarms ............ : ............................ 641 .  Open DoorjWindow ..... !.............. S9  Motorist Assist ................ :............. 16S  Breaking & Entering.....................  T2  Attempted Breaking & Entering.....  13  Construction Site Burglary ............  3  Vehicle Burglary· ..........................  22  Suspicious Vehicle ....................... 170  Suspicious Person ............ ............  79  Peeping Tom .. ._.............................  6  Theft (Larceny) .......................... :..  35  Animal Control Assist ................... 33  Lost/Found Pet.. ....... ·-················· S8  Pet Nuisance ................................  20  Snake .. : .............. :......................... · 18  Family Dispute .............................  9  Neighbor Dispute .................. :......  8  Loud Disruptive Party ..... :............. · 17  Fireworks Complain°t .................... ' 7  Vandalism (General) .................. :.. , 92  Mailbox Vandalism ...................... '59  Mailbox Stolen .............................  6  Lost/Found Items ..........................  9  Dee{ Hunters .·: •.. ~ •..• : .••. ~  ......... .; •.. ;:  0  Speeding Vehicle ....... ::................. 12.  Assault /Battery (Fight) ...................  4  Death Threat ................................  6  Unusual Special Request .............. 64 K  Salesperson Problems.................... 30  Phone Problems............................  11  Car Accident.................................  15  Motorcycle Nuisance ....................  6  Fire .: ............................................. 40  Rescue ..... ~.... .. . ...... . . .. ....... ....... .....  41  Utility Company Assist .................. 52  Construction Sites.......................... 20  Vacant Houses (For Sale, etc.)........ 29  Specials (Extra patrols/observation) 48  Homeowners on Vacation ............. 2568  TOTAL CALLS ............................... 4524  Total Mileage ........................... 46256  884-8800  Extraordinary Home Addition!  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  ~IIIID~  IPIBCIDIF1 U ~ The Mooclys - Exploring the High Seas and the High Desert  By Carolyn Hinde/ - Grit Editor  The 18th cemwy replica of a  ship's cannon greeting you at the  front door is an appropriate welcome  to the sea of activities going on inside  the lovely home of Frank and Pat  Moody of Sandia Heights North. Their  beautiful contemporary-adobe was  designed and built 2 years ago by Foy  Cuny. Not many were interested in  this boulder festooned acre near the  National Forest boundary on Spring  Creek Lane. "It was considered a no- view .lot." says Frank. But Mr. Cuny  took ailvantage of every view oppor- tunity with great aplomb, placing  windows away from neighboring  houses and surrounding the very pri- vate patio with a flowing, wave-like  adobe wall that allows only stunning  moontain views.  Inside is a mix of oozy nooks  and open living space with angled  walls and SkYlights to display Pat's  passion, oil and" watercolor painting  (she's in Who's Who of American  Women), and Frank's - elephant art  "Paw prints embedded in the saltillo  tile here and there are considered a  sign of good luck." they say. Their  cats, Sadie and Star, frolic happily  amidst the eclectic deror. The Moodys  are world oavelers and it shows.  Pat and Frank Moody show off  their ship's cannon at the  entrance to their home on  Spring Creek Lane.  Although JXllPOCtin to be retired, this fa5Ci- nating couple are busier ~n they've ever been.  They are pan owners of Blue Chip Cookies of San  Francisco which rivals Mrs. F1eld's in mouth water- ing ditties. They also share ownership of Direct  Worldwide navel in Albuquerque. But their foremost  PIANfOFlllE~N  lavender Cotton (Santolina chamaecyparissus) is a small evergray shrub that  grows 2 feet tall and three feet wide. Yellow button like flowers appear in summer  and the tiny foliage has a delightful sage fragrance.  l.avender Cotton  Santolina chamaecyparissus  Lavender Cotton is a native to Spain and  Northern Africa. It is cold hardy down to  -40°F, so it can be grown successfully in  Santa Fe or the East Mountains tocr.-Plant  in full sun or part shade anytime of year  as long as the ground is not frozen, using  1 part planting mix to 1 part native soil.  Planting: Build a berm with soil 2 feet  around the base of the plant. Fill the basin  with water twice to ensure a deep soak- ing. Keep the plant moist but not too wet  for the first two months. As time passes,  decrease the frequency of water and  increase the amount of water given. After  the first year, monthly soakings will suf- fice, except in mid-June and July, when  waterings every two weeks will help this  plant to thrive.  Recommended use: Lavender Cotton is a fast growing shrub and a real advantage  where quick establishment is needed. Use it as a groundcover, a low border or  edging plant or in rock gardens. Because of its gray-colored foliage, it provides a  nice contrast to green under trees or taller shrubs. Lavender Cotton is also a deer  and rabbit repellent.  A related species is Green Santolina (Santolina virens) which is evergreen not  evergray. Growth habits and plant characteristics are the same, however Green  Santolina is also a fire retardant.  If you have any questions regarding this plant, please call Dan Caudillo at 856-6617.  endeavor centers around water, the very thing  there's least of in our pan of the southwest. Years of  escaping their high-stress jobs by drifting on the  ocean has led the Moodys to a new lifestyle. Now  dividing their time between the high desert and the  high sea seems to be their rup of tea and they think  a lOt of others here would be interested.  So Pat and Frank have opened Cruise  Holidays here in Albuquerque to offer anyone who  misses the salt air a chance to get wet and see the  world while they're at it And to them the ultimate  getaway, one they've taken 5 times and counting. is  a luxury safari aboard the Wmdstar. This unique  vessel is a fully equipped. motoring cruise ship that  is also capable of operating and maneuvering under  sail power. It's designed first of all to accommodate  the sails, and second, to  provide  a  maximum  amount of outside deck  space. "It's the sexiest and  most physically appealing  cruise ship afloat, "says  Frank rather frankly. But for  desert people it's an oasis of  water, sun, fun, relaxation  and subtle luxury that can't  be beat Wmdstar has two  sister ships that together  sail the warm climes of  Tahiti, the Mediterranean  and the Caribbean.  Ea::h ship has four  levels with 7 4 identical pas- senger cabins all with 1V,  VCR and CD.There's an  exercise room. sauna,  Frank was a coach  at Sandia High School  until 1971- "Whats that little purple flower growing by my driveway  "What native plants would do well in my garden?"  ':Am I watering too much?"  "Who ate all my flowers? "  If you would like to learn more about wildflowers  and share yo &li!:den.ing Qll.CS!ions and experiences  with interested neighbbrn, check out the  Sandia Heights Wildflower Glub. Friendly, informal  meetings every bthtt moo  feanning:-talks by expera  in.die fields of wildflower iaeiltification, ~ve plants o  our area, watd-~ gardenjng, natural ~ing,  arid more; ~I discussioos on JOpics.of interest;  June garden tour; SUilllilCr field trip; fall pot luck. It's a  great way to explore the beautiful natural envi!onment  in which we live. J · . us for our next meeting.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  W INTER - 1997  swimming pool. library, casino, ~shop, lounge and  cr:ey resraurant The unpretentious decor is tastefully  done in subtle colocs and the si7.e of the vessels give  you the feeling. of being on a private yacht rather  than a cruise ship. The theme is casual, but elegant  "For many men it's a treat not tD have tD wear a tie  for a week while there's always an opportunity tD  dress up in a fun relaxed way,· says Pat.  These auises are designed for active people.  1Wo full-time spons directD!s _provide equipment for  snorkeling. scuba, sunfish sailboating. wind surfing.  kayaking and banana boat rides. The rear swim- ming/sports platform is lowered at most scops tD  accommodate all of these activities and 4 zodiac  power boats are ready for waterSkiing and lranS- porcation tD shore and sites.  So where did all this love for the sea come  from? And why are they in Sandia Heights? Well  let's back up a bit Frank hails from WUISIOW, AZ. so  the southwest is no scranget He received his Masters  in American History from NAU in flagstaff in 196 7  and had his first taste of Albuquerque. teaching,  coaching at Sandia High School (Candelaria and  Pennsylvania) till 1971. "There was nothing in the  fOO!hills back then. .. no homes," Frank remembers.  Sandia Heights was just beginning when he segued  into another career - management and investment  in large regional centers - taking him to San  Bernardino, CA, Nonhbrook, IL, Chico, CA, and  finally tD San Francisco in 1981, where he evenrually  became pan owner of Yarmouth Inc., a commercial  real estate investment company with $8 billion in  property and the 4th largest institutional investment  advisor in the U.S.  CRUISE  HOLIDAYS  296-6255  800-803-5288  ~tlVJSi~ ,  ... HOLIDATS~  11032 Montgomery Blvd NE  It was there he met Patricia Murray. She  was a divorced mother of four with a Masters degree  in Psychialric N  .  and an ;n:omp!ished painter,  having attend~e Academy of Art in San  Francisco. Their first real adventure together was  aboard Racy One, Pat's 40 It. sailboat docked in the  British Virgin Islands. It was the beginning of a wet  and wonderful relationship. Pat was also a certified  skipper, with a Coast Guard Ocean Operator's  License, often sailing San Francisco Bay, the Pacific  coast and most waters of  the Caribbean.  She had come a  long way from paralyzing  polio at the age of 12 in  Muskegon, MI. While rais- ing her children, working  at medical centers in  Michigan, Missouri and  California, and learning tD  sail, she still found time tD  satisfy her alter ego by bid- ding for tuition to art school  at ho.5piral fundraisels.  "The Wind Star, Wind Spirit and Wind  Song are the sexiest and most physically  appealing cruise ships afloat/ says Frank.  ~  terrain out her window provides.an excellent  milleu for ideas.  Frank says he bought their house without  Pat seeing it And the southwest design took some  getting used to a~e r years in the Midwest and  California. But while they considered many places to  seule down- Phoenix, Scottsdale, Prescott in  Arizona; Monterrey Peninsula, Marin County in  California - the open space, views and hiking  paradise of the Sandias won out  Frank still finds himself consulting pan time  for the shopping mall indusoy. And Pat is ~  for her brushes and canvas. But the business or  cruising and the "inaugurals,· or coming--OUt parties  aboard the new and refurbished ships thrown sever- al times a year by-various cruise lines are hard tD  pass up. One of their last trips was on the Carnival's  new Destiny, the largest ship in the Caribbean; a  Ooating resort weighing 104,000 tons with room for  3300 passengers. 'Tue Starue of Liberty would fit in  its aaium hub. Awesome!· say the Moodys. And for  their 30th cruise, they are accompanying a small  group on the Radisson Seven Seas' Song of F1ower  from London to Malaga in July 1997. So give them a  call if you need water or just want tD ralk about it!  She has painted  and taught for yeais under  the name Patrice Murtay.  ·1 would call my forte ...  Realism,· says Pat. Her sw- d io in Sandia Heights  attests to her keen ability tD  see unique design in the  wolld of light and shadows  that surround us. And the  Pat would like to spend more time painting. Her favorite work entitled  "Support Group"(right) has the faces of colleagues hidden in the art.  RADISSON SEA CRUISES  Sail on the number One Cruise Line  in the World as rated by Conde Nast.  Song of Flower  July 28, 1997  London to Malaga  Special Group Rates  Pat and I will be escorting  this special group. Learn  more about this exciting  cruise at a Coffee, Wednesday,  March 12. Please call for  your personal invitation  and details .  ~CRUISE.'!!.._  if HOLIDATS.  ..  ~JS H HA) .... · ....  1.uE ..  2N 111 0,Wf..o."Es.oa.' o.f EV.Ee.' M.o"-1~ ....  PA.srn.01.1 N.oe.1u.1eE.s1.an110N.-.1:0.oP.M _  BbhRD MHTINGS 5d llBRUABY 12 5d' MARCH 12 5d  1  APHIL 9  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  The Bobcat  Unseen Dweller of the Wilds  By Robert L. Harrison, Ph.D.  Research Assistant Professor of Biology, UNM  Cootro!led power. Stealth. camouJlage. Acute  sensory pen:eplion. Warm and fuzzy? Puning7 Behold  the bobcat, symbol of the American wilderness and  countless &:hoci5 and sports teams. The image of the  bobcat. like that of the tiger, is widely used, but rela- tively few ~  are knowledgeable of the habits and  inner lives of either species.  Bobcats are larger than most houseeats,  weighing betweeen 10 and 35 pounds. Their coats are  various shades of gray, yellow and brown with dark  spocs or lines. They have very short tails for which they  are named. living throughout mast of the United Stl!tes  and Mexico, bobcats make their homes in ahnost any  habitat: moontlins, deserts, forests, swamps and farm- land. Only intense~ or wban development are  known to keep them OUL Bobcats occur all over New  Mexico although there are fewer in the eastern plaim.  Rabbits are the main course of a bobcat's fare,  but they also hwtt Olher small animals, such as rodents  and birds. They are fuDy capable of l<illing ooult deer.  but do so rarely. Hwtting pdmarily at dawn and dusk,  bobcats use their kfen senses of sight and hearing to  locate prey. Their camouflage coars and stealth allow  them to approach WlSCen behind cover before a final  deadly pounce.  Adult bobcats lead solitary lives except dwing  mating seasons. Females live in separate territories,  with one dominant male overlapping the ranges of sev- eral females. Usually two or three kittens are born in the  spring. When food is scarre. such as dwin~ dry  years, the social system breaks down and  roam  widely in searth of food.  They do purr but are usually silent During  mating season, they may emit loud screams, hisses and  ghostly growling SOIID:ls. CUrious as any housecar. they  are attracted to shiny pieces of metal or unusual scents.  However, it may take them up to half an hour to  approach a strange object, all the while alert to danger.  American colonists considered the bobcat as a  threat to livestock and wild game, and established  The Department of Biology at  the University of New Mexico  is begiming a study  on the effects of  housing development  on bobcats  in Sandia Heights,  the East AfoW1tam  and Placitas.  Ina few~,  residents of these areas will  receive a questionnaire about  their observations and attitudes  toward bobcats.  Watch for it in the mail!  bounties to reduce their numbers. They were never  as persecuted as larger predators such as wolves. But  in 1975, the Convention of International Trade in  Endangered Species (CITES) prohibited export of the  skins cif endangered siiotted cats such as ocelots and  cheetahs. European furriers turned to the bobcat as a  substitute and the number killed soared to over  90,000 per year in the 1980's. The possibility that  bobcats might be wiped out led to regulated hunting  and trawing seasons. The demand lOr their fur has  declined with the general decline of fashion furs and  now most states, induding New Mexico, pay little  attention to management of bobcats.  Despite the decrease in trapping, other  threats to the bobcat are growing. Ucban expansion  is gradually filling their habitat. Bobcats do ocrur in  many refuges, but home ranges of individuals can be  as large as 33 square miles for females and 60  square miles for males. Most refuges are likely to  fuDy support only a few. For comparison, the Sandia  Mountains rontain about 100 square miles of nation- al forest. and probably a rela!ively small number of  bobcats. If the Sandia5 beoome fully surrounded by  · development in 1ljeras Canyon, the East Mountain  Area and Placitas, the small population of bobcats  may become isolated and in danger of dying out  Another threat to bobcats is the expansion  of the range of coyotes, which will prey on them.  With the exiirpation of the wolf and exten.5ive habi- tat changes in the lower 48 states, coyote popula- tions have grown. In 1989, the New Mexico  Deparonent of Game & Fish reporterl that our bob- cats were dying younger than in the past. Increased  numbers ofroyotes may be the reason.  Presently, the bobcat is noc listed as endan- gered and many areas appear to have healthy popu- lations. However, their numbers have not been  dosely monitored since the peak trapping years of  the 1980's. Habitat lass and expansion of coyotes  are stealthy hunters in themselves, capable of deplet- ing a species' population virtually unnoticed.  Survival of bobcats in the furure will be a matter of  careful planning and understanding of their needs.  Associate Broker· Sandia Heights Resident  Direct Office: 880-2211 • Residence: 856-2211  ONCE AGAIN,  H. PARNEGG REALTY'S  #l SALESPERSON!!  Fifth Generation Albuquerque Native  19 Years Of Real Estate Experience  15 Years As An Associate Broker With H. Parnegg  Integrity I Professionalism I Outstanding Service  $20,000,000 Sold in 1996!!  Max M. Sanchez, Jr., MBA, CRS  ._ ______________________________________ ...  THE BEST  STARTS  HERE!!  i H.P~EGG  REALT Y ,INC  6301 Uptown Blvd. NE · (505) 883-6161  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  Xeriscaping: It's Not A Style,  It's A Philosophy  By Bob England - Designer & Horticulturist  THE 9 MOST MISGUIDED TiflNGS  PEOPLE REQUESf  WHEN THEY WANf XERISCAPING  1. I want all rock. (Let's maxe Albuquerque ugly)  2. I want plants that cake no water. (Plastic desires)  3. I wan~~· so I can't have xeriscaping.  (Uninformed)  4. I don'tneed a design.  (They don't carry road maps either)  5. I don't want any maintenance. (Found a car there)  6. I don 'tneed a warering system. (Plastic plants)  7. I don't like that caaus look. (Options are good)  8. I want to save water; but weeds - no thanks!  (Options?)  9. I'm allergic to weeds. (Plant hummingbird plants)  These statements mean that  Xeriscaping is misunderstood.  so  WHA._T IS XERISCAPING?  Definition: "Quality Landscaping that  Conserves Water and Protects the  Environment"  THE 7 PRINCIPLFS OF  GOOD XERISCAPING  1. PLANNING AND DFSIGN:  Developing a landscape plan is the first and most  imponant step. A properly planned Xeriscape land- scape takes into account the ~onal and micro cli- maaic conditions of the sire; existing vegetation and  topographical conditions; the intended use and desires  of the propeny owner; and the zoning or grouping of  plant marelials by their water needs. A landscape plan  also allows landscaping to be done in phases. Many  individuals can develop their own plan, but for best  results, consult a landscape profesOOnal.  2. SOIL ANALYSIS:  Soils will vary from sire to sire and even wichin a  ~en site. A soil analysis based on random sampling  provides information that enables proper selection of  plants and any soil amendments needed. When  appropriate, soil amendments can enhance the health  and growing capabilities of the landscape by improv- ing water drainage, moisrure penetration and a soil's  water holding capacity.  3. APPROPRIATE PLANT SELECTION:  Plant se1eaion should be based on their adaptabil- ity to the landscape area, the desired effea and their  ultimate size, color. and texture. Plants should be  grouped in accordance with their respective water  needs and arranged to achieve the look you  want Most plants have a place in Xeriscape  landscape. Maximum water conservation  can be achieved by selecting plants that  require a minimal amount of supplemental  watering in a given area Landscape profes- sionals can be of assistance when selecting  varioos plant material.  4. PRACTICAL TIJRF AREAS:  The type and location of turf areas  should be selected in the same manner as  all other plantings. Turf shouldn't be treated  as a fill-in material but rather as a major  planned element of the Xeriscape land- scape. Since many turf varieties require  supplemental watering at frequencies diJfer- ent than the other types of landscape  plants, rurf should be placed so it can be  irrigated separately. While rurf areas provide  many practicaJ benefits in a landscape, how  and where it is used can result in a signifi- cant reduction in water use.  5. EFflCIENT IRRIGATION:  If a landscape requires supplemental watering  and/or if an irrigation system is desired, the system  should be well planned and managed to conserve  water. Watering only when plants need it and water- ing deeply encourages healthy root growth and more  drought tolerant landscape. Consuli landscape and  irrigation professionals when plaruling irrigation for a  Xeriscape landscape.  6. USE OF MULCHES:  Mulches ·applied and maintained at appropriate  depths in planting beds will assist soils in retaining  moisture, reduce weed growth, and prevent erosion.  They can also be used where conditions ate not ade- quate or oonduaive for ~  quality rurf or ground  covers. Mulches are typically wood bark chips, wood  grindings, pine straws, nut shells, small gravel or  shredded landscape dippings.  7. APPROPRIATE MAINfENANCE:  Proper landscape' and irrigation maintenance will  preserve and enhance a quality Xeriscape landscape.  When the first six principles have been followed,  maintenance is easier and less expensive. because a  "responsible" landscape is healthier and uses less  water, fertilizer, pesticides and other chemicals to  maintain the plant material.  People often ask if blue grass is drought tolerant?  Only "I" answer yes, if it's in its native, narural home  (Kentucky). It's a cool season grass, which means it  grows during the winter months. It can tolerate a  short term drought during those months if normal  precipitation oca.us the remaining part of the year. 1b  force it to grow in ~is  to create a siruation  that is not nonnal. By forang it to grow in the hot  part of the year; cutting it short; planting it on very  shallow soils that are not tilled, or tilled only 2-3  inches deep; and watering it only 2-3 inches deep is  WINTER-1997  . Xeriscaping - not all rocks.  neither nonnal for the grass nor a responsible way to  landscape. Plants mistreated in this way are prevent- ed from growing narurally. Stressed plants, even  though adaptable to garden care, demand special  treatment and lose their drought tolerance.  Of all the principles, irrigation is the  most confusing.  So here's a ste,p-by-step;  • A valve can be manual or automatic - turning off  and on the supply of water. Automatii: valves must  open and close with low volwne.  • Controllers keep time - What day(s) to water,  what time to start, how lo~\L:fch valve allows  watering. They should have m~IR. \)rograms, mul- ~~ ~  r~ii:  to~ 1i°~'.  enOa!S; and a run  • Pressure in lines need to be no more than 25  pounds per inch (psi). Most Albuquerque homes  have a pressure abcive 50 psi.  • All systems that will have drip devices also need  to be filtered.  • Infiltration is the amount of water that soaks into  the ground in one hour.  • Precipitation is amount of water deliver by a  warenng device.  • Precipitation must be less than infiltration, if not,  runoff occws.  .  • F.ach plant needs a sufficient amount of water to  wet the root ball thoroughly each time it is watered,  about one gallon for each square foot of root mass.  Usually the root mass will equal the mass of plant  material above ground.  • How often a plant needs to be watered is deter- mined by its ability to tolerate or demand drought  Once established, hi$-water-use plants can go with- out water for only aDout 7 days; moderate-water-use  plants can tolerate diyness for about 15 days; and  low-water-use plants are rolerant for about 30 days.  UNIQUE LANDSCAPE DESIGN OPPORTUNITY!  30--50°/o DISCOUNIS  ON PROFESSIONAL IANDSCAPING!  "I need yards ar outdoor areas to design in  SPECIFIC WWWATER  LANDSCAPE THEMES  that mn be photographed and published  in my furthcoming xeriscape design book.''  Offer open 2!:!h to Sandia &iglits hcmeowners.  Sandia  Envirorunental  -DESIGNS- CallDan  for details!  856-6617  THE GRIT  New lVI Training Center  Goes to the Voters February 4th  By Sally MilcDonald Ooms  The Albuquerque Tuchnical Vocational Jnstib.lte  will seek voter approval on February 4 for a new  workforce training center that would offer training  based on businesses' specific skill requirements, bud- gets and timelines. lVl has always done a good job  at training enay-level employees,· says President  Alex Sanchez. "Now we need a new tool in our tool- box so we can respond rapidly.·  The funding plan is for $9 million, which calls  for a request of an additional $4 million from the state  Legislarure and for lVI to raise another $1 million. If  voters approve the measure, the mill levy increase will  be $2.66 per year for 10 years for the owner of a prop- erty with a rnarl<et value of $100,000.  Sanchez says there are noc yet any an:hiteaur- al designs. The center would indude two roncepcs: an  open bay area he says lVI could have used when it  trained new employees for General Mills, and an  office-type training space with computers and com- puter accootrements.  lVI has already been fashioning programs to  meet cenain industry needs, says Noel Behne, a  retired Albuquerque-area banker who chairs the com- mitree to support the initiative. But the space for train- ing equipment is cramped and ~  Mexico's existing  and pm5pCClive businesses are clamoring for a ~  expansion in workforce aaining. A new facility walili  provide space for companies' own equipment so  employee training would be completely up-to-date  and germane. Behne says General Mills and other  industries have put existing facilities to this use. Other  ABQ metro area industries like Intel and Motorola  have voiced strong support for a la!ger center.  The appeal to Albuquerque economic deveklp- ment grOU{lS and businesses is threefold, says Behne.  Those thinlting of ~  in the city would be .seived  by having workers tramed "before they even get  here.• And the center would be available for expand- ing NM businesses to use. supplying their own new  equipment A "hidden secret bonus" falls in line with  the aurent "wO!k fair" drive, the effort to ger people  off the welfare rolls. "I perceive that there will be a  uansition period in which we can use this center to  train people. It would be a tremendous benefit to the  state.· says Behne.  Sanchez says small businesses would realize  significant benefirs from the center because. while  they must remain competitive, they often do not have  the resources to do in-house training. The center rould  aggregate their needs and ronsolidate group uaining.  And it would allow lVI to respood quid<ly to requestS  from companies needing short-term concentrated  employee training in highly specific areas.  The cemer's focus would Vlll)I from lVl's regu- lar cenificate and ~ee programs which are more  comprehell.5ive and rake up to two years to complere.  "It will help workers to remain competitive and get  better paying jobs. We can have rapid response to  any growth in the economy. Workers rereving train- ing would benefit. Companies needing trained  employees would benefit. And the general public  would benefit via positive effects on the economy,·  says Sanchez.  Behne says his support axnmittre of CXJrnmu- nity leadels, formed only a month ago, has already  raised $6,000 in cash and received large monetaiy  pledges toward the campaign. The 15 committee  members represent area industries, businesses and  banks a-; well a-; the school "If we are going to pre- pare foc the year 2000 and keep Albuquerque growing  the way it has. been, this is a way to do it·  "The more we're able to provide skills and train  worl<as to be more competitive, the better off we all  are,· says Sanchez. "That's what it's all abouL •  Year round Seven days a~  Arrt time, day or night, Llnda Cal~ is on ooll.  No house too big, no house too small.  She's worked them all and ha.s been doing it  successfully in Sandia Heights for over 18 years.  It's that WYV'f that got her into the Who'.5 Who  in New- Mexia:> Residential Real fstate, the Flite 25  of Albuquerque Realtors and made her one of the  top 10 C.01~11 Banker Metro 100 Realtors. And as a  long-time Sandia Heights resident, Linda knows  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  ->  I- a:  a:  <(  c:c  ELECT DICK  BARR  • Fonner CEO of  Presbyterian  • Past United Way  Campaign Chainnan  •  Former Member TVI  Foundation  Acii\e TVI Supponer  Since 1%9  His vision  for the future of TV!...  "TV! must effectively  fulfill its multiple missions  to train vocational workers  for existing and new jobs;  to provide educational  options for associale  degrees and preparation  for baccalaureate degrees;  and to offer numerous  continuing education or  skill opportunities."  Vote for Di ck Barr  paid for bv Dick Barr for  TV/ Campaign.  Maureen Luna , Treasurer  ' •  ~J~  269-3635  818 -llXX>  METRO  ,  REALTORS  the tenitory. When you're ready to buy or sell in Sandia Heights, make it ea.5y  on }OOl'Sclf. l..et Linda do )001" hol.15e'M)rk_ She's already done the ho!Tle.\oUrk_  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  WINTER -1997  BERNALILLO COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT:  Sheriff Sets Goals for 1997  by Joe Bowdich - Bemalillo County Sheriff  When I was eleaed  to this office, it was wilh the  intention that I make a dif- ference In the Sheriffs  ~  During the past  two years much progress  has been made, however I  believe we can and will do  better in '97. Tue goals I have  sec include a continued concentration on our recruit- ing effort; to facilitate the building of two addiOOnal  Coou:nan:I Centers; and to provide more responsive  seM:e to the citizens of Bernalillo County.  Our recruiting effort remains paramount on  my list of priorities for 1997. The County CornrnS;ion  granted us new positions for Dep.llies in 1996, so that  we may have a total of 24 7 Deputies (including  Undersheriff Kenneth Mcwethy and myself) on  board. last December, 13 Deputies graduated from  Bemalillo County Sheriff's Regional Aca:lemy. Thooe  13, which include 6 women, are now assigned to on- the-job of training. We are left with 30 vacancies,  which I plan to fill by holding two  Academies in 1997. You can assist  in this effort If ;oo know someone  interested in a law enforcement  carea. have them c:aD our Recruiting  Office at 242-1798.  Many of you are aware of the ~  of  the NE Heights Sheriff's Substation, to be namei! in  memxy of Lieutenant William Sibrava. Consauc!ion  on that facility is expected to be completed this  Spring. Thi5 is part of our cornmunity policing effort,  •io fucate In the heart of the community.•  The substation is intended to be a place where  oommunity ~  can gather. Plans are in the works  to bJild two new oornrnand centas - in the North  valley and in the South valley. We al<;o need to make  some improvements on our a:mrnand cmrer in the  East Mountains. While we may not see the froits  of our labor until next year, the planning SlllgeS are  wen underway now.  Tue substatiorn go hand-in-hand with what  we've ~  planned for our oommunity policing effort  They allow us to be  closer and more  responsive to the  community. I believe  we can better tackle  crime issues when  law enforcement and the citizens are in sync.  Another beneficial element to our problem-solving  approach to policing is the establishment of a  Crime Analysis Unit, to better detennine where our  resowces should be uliliud. '!echnology can be a  huge asset in fighting crime. It won't be long  before our Communications Center is operating  with CAD- Computer Aided Dispatch. Deputies will  be online with the Center through computers  in their squad cars.  While this is a brief overview of what I  would like to see happen in '97, I am constantly  open to new iclea5 and am willing to con.5ider what  will wak in ;oor particular community. It has been  proven time and time again - people are our most  valuable resource.  New Sheriff's Command and Communications  Center is Right on Schedule by Bob Kemble -SHHA Vice President  New Command Center  is nearing completion at  Eubank & Holly NE.  According to Nat Arrieta, Bernalillo County Communications Manager, construction of the Sheriff's  Command/Communications Center near the corner of Eubank and Holly is progressing on schedule and is expected to be complete:!  by mid-March. The sheriff's staff should begin moving in about that date, although all cornmwlicarion equipment will probably noc be  inslailed until mid-June or July. Short of unexpected problems, such as  severe, long-term weather, no serious delays are anticipated by  Longhorn Conslluc!ion Savices Company.  The idea for a Sheriffs Subslaiion in this area began in earnest  when the SHHA Board made it known that their first priority for capital  projects was establishing a greater la"." enforrement presence in rhe far  Nonheast 1-leights area. 'That c:oocem took on even ~eatet ~  with the homicide at Circle K on namway Boulevard in early 1 994.  With the assistance and substantial suppon of our County  Commissioner Barbara Seward, Sheriff Bowdich and o!her officials, the  substation concept was expanded to evenrually encompass the current  plan; Le. a combination command and communication center with suf- ficient space for in-SCIVice law enforcement aaining and meetings for  appropriate public entities like local horneowner's associations. Led by  then Senator Turn Wray, a member of SHHA, our local legislatocs were  able to obtain matching funds within two consecutive legislative ses- sions, which made the building plan finandally feasible.  The building will be 13,500 sq. fl including a meeting room of 1400 sq. fl and ample parking space, but will have only a  single story withoot unsightly towers or exremal communications apparatus. 11 is designed for future expansion as needed. The cost  is around 1. 7 million and it will house some 2 million in sq>histicated oommunication equipment, funaioning as a dispatch cenr.er for  both sheriff pattol.5 arxl fire c:aDs. 11 will also secve as an alremate eme!gCrlCY opera!ions cenrer arxl aaining OOlity as needed  The SHHA Board bas been pleased to observe the progress of this important addition to our neighborhxxl for which we feel a  bit of parental responsibility. We again express our thanks to all who have assisted in this projea.  Priced less than you think.  Molly Maid gives you peace of mind that's pric  1~ ~" f,t"'  I 1i 'ff.;J  • 600,000 cleanings performed last year  • Written Guarantee of Satisfaction  • Your maids are Insured, Bonded,  Uniformed, and Supervised ...  1- 1 ;c. 1 a ~•a ; 5u .1 - -,  I  'Get Acquainted Offer  I  I  <bo5  I  :  ~~i ~  :vALUE  1 1  Call for Details &.  FREE Estimate  Call TODAY for your free, no obligaJion estimate  ~  ·~  : $10.00 Off Isl Cleaning  I $15.00 Off 4th Cleaning  I  Ne~~;,:'m-r:'rs.  I  Offer auaaabie at  .!__~~~.:___  I MOILY MAID.  I  A HouseJwld Name Since 1979  232-3430  ,,,  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Win a Free Flight for Too at the Rio Grande Zoo!  Winter Zoo '97 Photo Contest!  1be Rio Grande Zoo is having a Winter Photo Contest sponsored by Southwest Airlines.  . You can enjoy the seasonal beauty of the 'l/XJ, have fun, take photos and maybe  win rou~-trip airfare for ~o . The contest is open to all amateur photographers  and there IS no limit of enmes per person. There are categories for BfW and color,  ZOO-GOERS WITH  A CAMERA WILL  BE ADMITTED AT  HALF PRICE  FEBRUARY 8-9  animals alone, or animals with people and separate age groups for children and  adults. Winners will be announced at noon, Saturday, March 8th and 9th  a~ the 't"fJ7 Rio Grande Zoo Winter Photo Show. Wmning photos will be  displayed at the 'l/XJ's entrance during March and will become property of the  Rio Grande Zoo afterwards.  Contest Rules: Each entty is $5.00 and must be either black and  white or color (minimum size = 5"x7"-maximum size= 11 "xl4"). Prints must  be matted only, no frames or glass, and have a completed entty form attached to  the back. 1be photos must fearure Rio Grande Zoo animals and have  been taken after )anuaiy 1, 1997. Deadline for all entries is Spm Monday  March 3rd. Pri1.eS and ribbons will be awarded to Best of Show, ~  Second  and purct place in each category and age group. Best of Show wins the round- tnp tlckets on Southwest. otfier prizes are donated by participating Albuquerque  businesses. W=ers not present at the photo show will be notified by mail.  let's take our cameras and do Sandia Heights prood by snapilng a win- ning photo! We'll fearure it in the next Grit So take the family and= sh<xxing.  Only wussies won't show!  Name  Addras  Cioi  D"Y Phone Numbu  Title of Entry  CHEO<ONE CATEGORY'  O Animals On{Y: BladiWhiu  0 Anfm4lr On{y: C.olor  1993 photo  by Beery Hanis  Stau  Zip  ./~  05-16  Oll&alda- O Animals wiih J'CQp/t; Either Dlud:/W11itt or Color  Rio Grande Z,oo  EDUCATION  903 Tenth St. SW  Albuquerque, NM 87102  RENEW-A  SURFACE  THE BATHROOM  REVITALIZATION EXPERT!  WE CLEAN AND RESTORE  PORCELAIN, TILE,  FIBERGLASS, CULTURED  MARBLE, GLASS AND  CHROME SURFACES  RENEW-A SURFAC E  10700 Kielich Avenue, NE  Albuquerque, New Mexico 87111  CALL 332-4&1 2 for a  FREE REVITALIZATION ESTIMATE TODAY  1993 photo' by Dianne Moreland  A $5.00 Service Fu mwt accompany tf2th tnrry.  When Jid you find out about the conttstl  O Brochure  0 Busin.cn Card  0 ZooScapc  Otlur ____  _  Your Tub's a Mess? You Need Renew-A Surface  8y Page Turner©  Are you expecting compa- ny SOO!l? Are you planning to  put your borne on the market  . in the near furure" Or are you  just tired of dealing with ugly  mineral deposits, mildew, or  soap sewn in your bathroom?  If any of these situations  sounds like yours, now' s !he  time to pick up the phone and  caJI Renew-A Surrace. the  bathroom  revitalization  expen. at 332-4612.  Renew-A Surface is a  bathroom restoration service  owned and operated by Jef(  Miller, a leading auihorily on  dealing with the problems  caused by Albuquerque" s  infamous hard water. Renew- A Surface is not a franchise.  In fal"t, Miller dedc.k.'d to sk'Ul  Renew-A Surface in 1995  after years of bathroom revi- tali.:ting experience while he  was the principal owner of  New Surfaa!. Inc., tile. compa- ny he made famous for resur- facing L"OUntcnops. rubs. tiles.  and appliances. "While I was  there, I found that revitalizing  surfoces was often a mudJ less  expensive way lO give bath- rooms a great look. rather tban  installing a completely new  surface," Miller recalls. "At  the same time, I came 10 real- ize that doing this kind of  work - cleaning peoples·  tiles and bathrooms - was  something f enjoyed. ft satis- fied my perfectionist nature.  and it altowcd me to get all  the praise.  "I thrive on blowing away  my customers with I.be incred- ible improvements I make to  their bathrooms," be contin- ues. "I actually prefer to work  on the really 'grungy' jobs;  the won;e it is lO be2in with.  the more dramatic "the end  resulL"  If you baven't bad tbe  opportunity to see what  Renew-A Surface can do for  your bathroom, you·re in for a  surprise.  "Ugly mineral deposits and  slains are just about impossi- ble to eliminate witl1 house- hold cleaning products," says  Miller. "Calcium, lime, and  al.her inorganic scale in our  hard water tx:mds solidlv with  just about all kitchei1 and  bathroom fixtures - from  porcelain. ceramic tile. lihcr- glass, cullured marble. gla.;;s,  plexigJa-;.s, and vitreous china  to chrome. aluminum. brass,  and stainless steel. Soap ,;cum  geL'i absorbed into I.ht: sea.le. or  mildew ;.md al!.!ae !!mw on tJ1t:  damp surfarc.-or Other stains  form from red rust or green  copper rntidc."  MiUer has a hnck1.!mund in  cbemcstry !hat cnabl;;; him to  come up with solutions to  even the toughest bmllroom  revitalization chores. "Our  method is lhe most cost-effec- tive and hassle-free solution to  unsightly and embarrassing  bmhrooms." says Miller. He  uses the correct chemicals  needed to eliminate all ntinL-r- al buildup. soil. and discol- oration. He uses special sta.in  remoycrs. deo~izing agents.  de-scalers. and solvents in  conjunction with the proper  tools to tot.a.Jlv eliminate all  forms of griine that have  There's rothing that Renew-A Suriace owner Jeff Miller relish- es rrore tl)an the opportunity to revrralize a ·grungy· bath- room. back to rrs original luster.  bonded 10 or gotten inside tile  fixture. Other chemicals and  devices are used lO elintinate  build-up of calcites on porce- lain, fiberglass, and a bosl of  surfaces. With his extensive  background, Miller knows  whicll chemicals and concen- Lrntions are best for each sur- face.  As Lbe revit.:1.liz.ation pro- ceeds, Renew-A Surface  touches up minor surface  dings, and re-grours and re- . caulks as necessarv. After the  fixture has been revitalized - including thorough deodoriz- ing and disinfecling - Miller  applies a prutcctive coating to  seal and polisb !he surface and  protect it from potential prnt>- Jems in the future. Alkr that.  all re\•italizl!<l surfaces are  guaranteed to slay looking  like new for years with just  minimal routine cleaning.  To see how customers like  each joh. Pat Miller. Jefrs  wife. follows up wilh a quality  assurance telephooe call. ··Jeff  always gets rave re,·iews. ··  says Pat. "but if tbere · s eYer a  problem, be fixes it right  away, no questions asked."  To see what Renew-A Sur- face can do for vour bath- room. call to arr3.ru!e a free  consulllttion and estilrote witl1  Jeff Miller. He'll show you  dozens of before-and-after  examples of bow he has reYi·  talized bathrooms throughout  Albuquerque. We bet one of  them is sure ro remind vou of  tile problem in your balliroom  He"ll give you an on-1..hc- spot quote thm's likely to he  le$.s lh'lll what you expect for  such a thorough cleaning .  Afler t.ha1. just arrangl! for :t  con vcnicni time to  ha\"l~  Renew-A Surface re\'italiu  your bathroom. Most job:-.  lakl! IL'Ss truu1 a ti.av.  You <lnn"t hav~ to live with  an unsightly bathroom any  longt!r. To see for yourself.  call Renew-A Swface ux.lay~  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  *******************  :  Winter BioPark Doings  :  * MORNING IN THE  A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A *  *  CONSERVATORIES  BIOPARK VET  *  SaUday, February 8  Saturday~ March 29  *  9an-11am  1pm-3pm  *  Aq..wi.nVGarden  Rio Gr.nle ZDo Barn  * Fee: $10 ($9 members)  Fee: $10 ($9 members)  *  * Thoogh a special guided tour, }QU'll  Learn how BioParl< vets cope with a wide *  *  le.am secrets about the plants exhibited in  range of job functions and maladies for *  the desert and iY.editerranean conservato- patients that include bonnet-headOO  *  ries and explore their habitats. For adults,  sharks, leopard geckos, and helmeted *  ·  families and unaccompanied children  OJrassowS. For adults, families and unac- * overage8.  corrpaniedchildrenaver12.  *  * SAVING ENDANGERED  FISH KIDS  *  SPECIES  Saturday, April 12  * Smday., February 16  10am - Noon  *  *  10am - Noon  Aquaril.m/Garden  *  Rio Grande ZDo  Fee: $10 child or $15 mid/parent  * Fee: $10 ($9 members)  combo ($19/$13 members)  *  *  Yalll go on an endangered species tour  Encourage }Qt.Jr bud'.ling }Qllng Hmarine *  and get an update on the breeding pro- biologist" to explore through fish crafts,  *  grams to save them. Meet Esperanza, our  guessing games and touching the likes of *  dmah born as a result of a unique inter- hermit crabs, sea stars and othereduca- * national experiment For adults, families  tional animals. For ages 3 to 6; one adult *  * and unaccorrpanied children over 12.  is encouraged to attend.  *  WINTER - 1997  Vote to Elect!!!  Richard  Toledo  Board of Education  District 7  Albuquerque Public Schools  • A proven track record of Progress  and Concern for all students  •  Endorsed by the  Chamber of Commerce  •  Educator and businessman  • A resident of District 7 for 20 years  ""ote February 4 !  Paid tor by Dale & Diane Dekker because we  believe Richard Toledo will be a good school  board member for District 7!  *  PROJECT WILD AQUATIC GET READY-SET-GARDEN *  Sahrday, Februacy 22  Saturday, April 19  CJ v Q (J (J Q v CJ v CJ  * :nc..:ZDo  :::Ganlen  *  * Fee: $15 ($13 members)  Fee: $10 ($9 members)  *  *  This nationally recognized envirorimental  Nbuquerque's dimate, soil and water sit- *  edication program is designed for class- uation make good preparation essential  * rocrn I homeschool teachers, parents or  for a successful growing season. Discover *  *  an)Q'E who works with children (grades  rew plants that }QU may want to try in *  K-12). join us for a day of hands-On learn- }Qt.Jr garden from our Botanic Garden  *  ing aOOut the aquatic world. You'll take  experts. For adults.  *  lune 40 aquatic-related activities at the  ROSES FOR YOU  * erd of the day. For adults.  Saturday, April 26  *  *  BREAKFASTWITHTHE  10am-Noon  *  BEASTS  Aquarun/Ganlen  * SaUday~ March 15  Fee: $10 ($9 members)  *  * 7:J<ml - 9'.30am  Roses mean beauty, but do they also *  Rio Grande ZDo  mean work? Find out what is in\dved in  * Fee: $15 ($13 members)  Albuqueique. Experienced gardeners will *  *  Share the zoo at dawn with wood chicks,  give tips on how to make the most of your *  bison, sea lions and condors! Savor a  roses- if }QU have one bush or many.  *  For~  *  l:reakfast at the Cottonwood Cafe, then  toor the zoo to see the animals who are  Pre-registration is required and is  * active and at their best in early hours .. For  on a first come, first serve basis. *  A HAPPY ALTERNATIVE FOR YOU ANO YOUR PETS!!  YOUR PETS .  • Stay in their secure, familiar en\lironment  • Fottow their own customary routine and diet  • Avoid exposure to illness of other animals  • Do not have lo be transported to another location  • Receive loving, individual attention  • Are exercised, if requested  • Give~ medicine. if required  • Rf!r,e1ve medical attention, ii necessary  • Are cleaned up after · yard, cat box, bowls, etc ...  • Are visited and played with  I bring in your mail, newspapers, adjust lights and  drapes. and water Indoor plants and yard . all crime  deterent measures.  I value your call. If I can be of service, please call me.  I have your pet's best interest at • !  REFERENCES BONDED INSURED EXPERIENCED  * 'tnffs~'.ies andunacccxnpaniedchil- 7~~:s~~=~ *  * MIME, BIO-VAN STYLE  Gift certificates available. *  00  * Salmlay~March22 ~  Sorry,norefunck o ~  . ~  * ~=ZDo ~  ~  ~ ~f?l,_~."  * Fee:$10 ($9 members)  ~  *  .  *  Communicate withhumorbutwithout ~  ~  *  ~  'Ml!ds. TheB10Van'sprofessional mime  :----_ •  ~~  *  will show}QU techniques to interpret  " * ~ 0  wildlife and habitats. Come and learn to ~  0  o  * mimeyourownbusiness!Forfamilies ~ *  ----z__ ~  * andSIJJdentsageB and older.  *  ~  *******************  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Cooking with Carob  carob Brownies*  By Patricia Aaron - Home Economist  Cooperative Extension Service, NM State University  Perhaps you're familiar with the "no- more-chocolate" diet that's supposed to begin  immediately after Christmas, but is postponed  until after Valentine's Day. In the future, if you  love chocolate but shrink from consuming all  those calories, try carob.  carob is a naturally sweet (about half as  sweet as sugar), high-protein, low-fat tropical  bean. It has the same rich color, consistency and  sweet taste of cocoa and can be used in all the  ways we use chocolate. And it costs about one- fifth as much as chocolate.  carob has as much thiamine as aspara- gus or strawberries; as much niacin as lima  beans, lentils or peas; more vitamin A than egg- plant, asparagus or beets; and is low in fat One  hundred grams of carob contains no caffeine and  only 3 milligrams of theobromine (a milder stim- ulant than caffeine); 100 grams of chocolate con- tains 180 milligrams of caffeine and 2320 mil- ligrams of theobromine. carob is ideal for anyone  with chocolate, cocoa or milk allergies.  Pods of the carob tree are roasted and  carob powder or flour is milled from the roasted  pods. A, light brown roast gives the best flavor  and rna:ximum nutritional value. carob powder  sells for about $1.20 per pound in Albuquerque.  carob powder  is used to flavor chewing tobacto,  dog biscuits, drugs and vitamins,  but the primary use of carob powder  is in baking. To substitute it for chocolate, 3 Tus.  carob flour plus 2 Tbs. liquid equals 1 oz.  unsweetened chocolate. To replace cocoa use the  same amount of carob powder. Use less sugar as  carob is sweet  ·  For a chocolate-like flavor in baked goods  such as banana nut bread or zucchini cake, sub- stitute carob powder for part of the flour. Measure  1/4 cup carob powder and 3/4 cup flour for every  cup of flour called for in the recipe. If substituting  carob powder for other specialty flours such as  oat, soy or rye, reduce the oven temperature by  25°F to prevent burning.  Because of its low fat content, carob  powder has a long shelf life. It attracts moisture,  so store in a tightly closed container in a cool, dry  place. If it becomes lumpy, crush and then sift out  the clumps. Refrigeration is not necessary if used  in 6 to 12 months. Freeze for longer storage.  You can reach me at 243-1486 if you  need further information. Enjoy these delicious  and nutritious brownies and have a very  Happy Valentine's Day!  1/2 cup butter  1 egg  1 tsp. vanilla  1 tsp. orange peel  1 tsp. lemon peel  1 cup pitted chopped dates  l /2 cup carob powder  1 cup rolled oats .  112 cup carob powder  1/2 cup flour  112 cup wheat germ  3/4 tsp. bal<ing powder  1/2 tsp. ground allspice  1/2 tsp. ground nutmeg  1/2 tsp. ground cinnamon  213 cup lowfat milk  1/2 cup chopped pecans  Preheat oven to 350°F. Grease bottom of a  10· x 15" bal<ing pan. In a large bowl, cream but- ter and egg. Mix in vanilla, orange and lemon  peels, dates and carob powder. In another bowl,  combine oats, flour, wheat germ, baking powder  and spices. Stir dry mixture into creamed mixture,  add milk and beat until blended. Pour batter into  prepared pan. Sprinkle with pecans. Bake in pre- heated oven 25 minutes. Coe! and cut in squares.  Makes about 2 dozen.  ·a<!Justed.for high ala'tude.  •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  '  '  1  hbl'IW'J 25 - Glll"l'l50 OBGAl'llZEDI  1  :  WJll!lll YOU ill - WJll!lll YOO WANT TO Bl  :  :  Setting goals a.nd lea.ming to keep records.  :  Take Charge of Your Life  By Taking Charge of Your Money  An educational program to assist women  in personal financial management  Seven lecture/workshops  Tuesdays, 9am - noon or 6:30pm - 9pm  February 24 through April 8  Del Norte Baptist Church  6800 Montgomery NE  Registration: $15 for all seven classes  Call Patricia Aaron at 243-1386 for more info  Sponsored by  Bernallllo County Extension Service  and.  American Association of Retired Persons  .  '  1  Much 4 - CASH PLOW: BUILDillG l'lllAllCIAL  1  :  BBCOIUT!1BOllTBIGBOUNDUP  :  1  Writing budgets and charting 1nllows & outflows.  1  '  .  :  Man:ll 11 - DB.'51mmf0 A CASH rLO'lf S!STDI  :  1  Studying ways to manage expenses, including  •  :  bank accounlS, bank servlces, record keeping  ;  1  and personal expense plans.  1  '  '  :  llWch 18 - WOll!l!lf A1lD l!ISUlWICB  :  1  Leamwbat Insurance you have a.nd need and  •  :  bow to shop for 1nsurance, government and  1  communlty resources.  ' ' • ' ' ' • ' • • • ' • ' •  Marcll 2S -DBCIDillG"WHATIP- ?"  Preparing for marriage, dlvorce or widowhood;  pmt1ng your &ffalra 1n order; Social SecUJ1ty  and pensions.  April l - WOll!l!lf A1lD lllVESTMlll'ITS  BOW DOBS YOUll MONXJ GB0W?  Learnlng about 1nvesLIDent guJdelines, 1nflation,  taXes, ret1rememincome and selling yolll' home.  :  April 8 - LIGAL llAftBBSc BilllllG PBOS  :  F1ndlng I.be right lawyer, accounlSnt, financial  1  planner, real estate broker ... for you.  '  '  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ................... .  PATlENZER  YOlJR CHOICE FOR '97  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  WINTER - 1997  El jay Ltd .  Uni que Southwestern Clothing for  Women and Gi.rl s  featuring Ultrasuede  ... .. Your home or mine 823-2187  Creative Construction Co.  - llE\'I HOt.IES  &  REt.IODEllllG - Scot Shapiro, CGR  (505) 256-7311  ~o  Cullom Homes &  Creolive Remodeling  w .. 1021211  BILL WILLIS  EUROPEAN  AUTOMOTIVE  SPECIALISTS  MUCEDIS BENZ  •  PORSCHE  •  AUDI  •••VIC. • •a.AIR • ~ARTS  US WYOM9tO M.W. •  Al..IUQUmOUI. Ml 11121 tlOtl 1M-IUI  Nancy S. Eckert  Piano lnstn1ctor  ( 505) 856-0963  \823 Tr:i.mw:i.yTerr:ice Loop N.E. • Alb .. N.M. 87 122  MORE ENERGY  IMPROVED HEALTH &  #101560  A BETTER IMMUHE SYSTEM  Ne you tired of being tired? Sick of getting sick?  If you are ready for OPTIMUM HEALTI1,  both physically and mentally,  call Brenda at 856-0915 for infoonation  about the world':; mo:;t nutrient rich superfood.  httf>://www.healthsolutions.com/SSGA/  John J. Teahan, M.D.  Board Certified Ophthalmologist  (505) 842-1844  Provi.di1tl( Comprthensiw Medical and Suf"K1·cal Eye Care  NEW  MEK ICO  EYE CLI NIC  ' .  . ,  Presbyterian Medical Plaza  I JOO Lead Avenue, SE  Albuquerque, NM 87106  (505) 296-3188  (505) 296-5552  Joe S•ntang1lo  OWN EA  -257 Juan hbo, N.e.  AlbuQuetQut, New Mexk:o 8712J  License No. 10020  VIS> • nd Mu t .,Crw~ •i;cepled  821-2158  or 856·9057  l.ih Mal:•·  f'.o : l:Uc,,('NI::  Albu4uuq...,, ~M C:' l"'•·il.JI::  £'OLA ..  lnJcp<:ndclll U1 ~1t1bu 1.ir  CLASSIFIED ADS  These non-commercial ads are printed at oo  charge to members of the SHHA and run for one  issue unless a longer run is requested. Send info to  the editor, rail 856-1868 or fax 856-1792.  CARPOOL TO SANTA FE. Meets daily at the Circle K.  Call Du<r.e I Pat 856-7443.  VACATIONING1 I will care for plant;, pets, yard. newspa- per and mail, etc., while you are gone. Call Amelia  Kohler. Age 14. E>iperienced. 856-1363.  NEED A SANDIA HEIGHTS BABYSITTIRI Call Lesley  LOO at 856-7909. She is 13 years old. Responsible. reli- able and resoucelul.  MOTHER'S HEl.PER for children 10 rroondls through 4  years. Erin Swimey, 9 years old. s 1.00 per hcu for each  child. 'My re5JX<l5ible. Relerenres available. 857-0727.  BABYSITTING b- 2 year-Olds & up. Catie johns, 12 years  old, 71fi grader. Received Babysitting Certification from  Campfire Girls and is certified in Oiild & Infant CPR.  Sl .50 per hour for 1 child. Reliable and locs of flil for  children. 856-0963.  KATHRYN SHAW, babysitter, pet sitter and other odd  jOOs. Age 16. Call 857-9236.  RESPONSIBLE EISENHOWER MIDDLE SCHOOL  STUDENT available for babysitting on weelcerds. Please  call v.r.essa at 856-3355.  GARMENT MAKING & ALTERATIONS  CALL GIGI  8201 Indigo NE  Albuquerque, NM 87122  Do-it-voursell  advertising works,  •  J~  ADVERTISING & DESIGN  IN SANDIA HEIGHTS  WHY NOT BE PROFESSIONAL ABOUT IT. CALL 856-1868  A New Vision for Humanity's Future  One of the most distinctive aspects of the worldwide Baha'i community is the hopeful yet pragmatic  way in which its members face the future. Far from fearing it, Baha'is the world over are dedicated to  creating a new and peaceful world civilization based on principles of justice, prosperity, and  continuing advancement. This vision reflects not only an appreciation for humanity's historic longing  for peace and collective well-being, but also of maturity.  That it is possible to create societies  founded upon cooperation, trust, and genuine concern for others is at the heart of Baha'i belief and  action. Indeed, Baha'is believe that humanity is on the verge of an evolutionary leap that will carry  humankind to a future where "world peace is not only possible but inevitable".  For recorded lnf~rmation about The Baha'i Faith call 856-2911, (out or area 800-684-4993).  •  '\:I  t::d =  ~ iii) ~- ~ ~ i~ ltb 1·  IS:  ~ z J> ... s:  .  ~  -· S' ~ - J  ~ !l ~ ~ ~ ff fs .  :~  - ·  11  ~ p  ;;;  •  "'  f°">  [ii  ""  ~  s~ I  ~ ~1255·1.  [ ~";'J I~ s if.  ~ "'N .......... <§:  &~N ~v.~ i;rl  ~ t::N ~  .  ""'  N  (3l  •  ::.- "'-1- f°">  - ':'<  ·-n>  ~  ~~  J!j' :: (~~)<  "" ·~·  '-~ ~\  ~  ~ .)  '  ,u  ...  .  )>  - · ~  ~  ~  ~  iii" s  3  ~- !  ~  [  i  ;>'.: ~ 15'  C"' 00 ::r  " °' "  g~~  :g ~ c;·  ~~~  ~~Q  ~~  .., > 'l'"'  IQ,.. 0 >  !~~~  !:.Oo;>  .., ~~ ::c  .,, ;ia ?i m  ~.OmCi  .., c ... ::c  IQ ,mo-1  'r' z '><."'  ~~~6  ~~s~  ... _.m  <.n  0  .,.  ~  0  z  o  m  ..,  ..,  ...  "'  ~  "'  z  >c  .- .  ~ CJ Y'  :::-0 c ~ c:o  ~~~~  -lm-1::;::io::::  z "')>"'  Q.0()~  ;,.., ~ ~ ~  ~2:~  ~o  Pueblo Upqate  C:;un~R~.  1  2  THE~ '.. .  ii '°"~";'",.,!···" '.·-· ·Ir/: ~ ·-,  - ,  ' . ' ~  /t~  ::t;.;~ ~- ~~  :,\<>  ·~  ~ ~  _..  '  ,r~'  }.. __  '  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  W INTER - 1997  Ranger's. Report .  NMLWV Broadcast:  City Needs Heir. to  Create a New Transit Plan  ARC 'k~  Prunipg  ·~Trail 1 Update  Sandia 'HaP,penings  'N~w' CNGBuses  " :J'.1-- r·n  .,.  '  by Anne Watkins - City of Albuquerque Transit Department Director  Transportation  Ls surely a hot topic In  Central New Mexico  these days. The popula- tion Is growing steadily,  and traffic congestion  is growing noticeably,  resulting in longer com- mute times, more traffic  accidents and more time  spent in traffic jams. Air  quality continues iD be a  concern; even though  Albuquerque got through  one more wi nter  At present, residents of this region have almost  no alternatives to the Single Occupancy Vehicle (SOV}.  Sun nan, Albuquerque's bus system, has a very limited  budget and provides limited hours of service with far  fewer vehicles than are needed to make transit a viable  alternative in such a large area. RIDEPOOL helps match  commuters into carpools and encourages employers to  provide benefits to employees who use alternate trans- portation, but a limited budget keeps its impact small.  Some residents would like to bicycle or walk, but lack of  a safe and friendly pedestrian-oriented environment lim- . its that choice. So the car has become a prosthetic device  - we just can't get around without it.  Securij.Y Report' 1  9  Anne  Watkins,  ABQ  Transit  Director  10  . 10  l2  13  Continued on page 5 ...  without a violation ~------------- of the federal air  111111  •  qua t ~.ty standards; •  WE NEED HELP FROM YOUR  111111  !he. brown cl?ud  111111  NEIGHBORHOOD OR  •  IS still all too evident •  W  overhead. Montano  COMMUNITY GROUP TO  Bridge is finally underway, but traveling from West •  CREATE A GOOD PLAN FOR  W  to East is st~t a challenge in the East Mo~ntain •  EXPANDED TRANSIT SERVICE!  111111  Valley. And m the next several years we will see  111111  •  more construction on HO. 1-25 and the "Big!."  •  ............................  W  it is dear that we need to make significant •  We would like to work with your group  111111  investments of public dollars in improving and  111111  to identify your mobility needs, look at  •  expanding our. transportation infrasnuc.ture in the •  maps of your area to see what kind of  W  next decade. It s also clear !hat our dec!,!;10n.about •  transit service is appropriate and think  111111  HOW that money IS spent will affect the livability of  111111  .  '  .  •  our area in the next century.  •  creatively together about how to design a  111111  . . . . A .. . "'"';""""" .,,., woriG ,.,, Y()\J!  ..  w~ \"' ,;/ . .,  ~  To setu~~ ·~~;; ·~,-;;~l~~~ee_ting  ~  ~ · . ;;i ~ ··.  •  or a speaker for your orgamZiJtton,  W  ~~O'lJ' •  call Elsie Davis at 764--0164.  111111  ~  _.,,.. ~  111111  TTY users - call the New Mexico Relay . •  ~zf"'~l~r •  at1-800-659-8331.  w  ~  F" &c:------------.1  