•  PUB UC  MEETIHG  SOUTH  DOHlttGO BACA  DAMPMK  PLNtS  AUGUSTZOTH  OUNl3 ON Pll(l~ 13.  ~ =---- ..  SH HA Annual Meeting Kicks Off  Issues Facing New Board  By Marshall Aungier - SHHA President  The Annual General Meeting of the  Association was held on )Wle 7th. A mild turnout  of members heard Sheriff Joe Bowdich discuss the  impact of the new Substation in our area (Grand  Opening was July 3rd) and security issues facing  a st.aff still short about 4 5 deputies. He indicated  that a pay raise will be sought to bring  them to the same level as the city police  department The Sheriff was followed by  guest speaker john Slown, Bernalillo  County Parks and Recreation Planner, who  derailed the South Domingo Baca Regional  Plan for the land behind Firestation #5.  The new Kicks 66 Service Station  beginning construction on Tramway at  San Bernardino was a hot topic, as was  the reservoir water tank planned to the·  west The San Bernardino commwtity park  will be officially named Little Cloud Park  and bids will be scheduled soon for a sign,  benches, picnic tables, shade structure,  fountain and dry-irrigated landscaping.  The Nominating Committee has done an  excellent job this year, reauiting qualified board  members with a wide variety of experience. The  Architectural Control Committee is very well  staffed with several architects and engineers. Don  Hooper, former ACC Chair, agreed to serve again  PROFILE: NEW BOARD MEMBERS  808 BROWN has been a resident of Sandia ljeights fe< 4-1/2 years, ai9ng with his wife, Jennifer and two  young sons. He is self~loye\l as a Human Resources Consultant with an ":flllhasis on Labor RelationS.  The iSsoes Bob would like to address include safety for pedestrians and bitjdisls, in:iproved County main- tenance of the Tramway bike path, and ~of  the Paseo del Norte corridor from Tramway lo 1-25.  GEORGE HIGHT is a third ~tion New Mexican, born in Gallup, where he lived until he and his wife,  Bonnie-" retired to Sandia Heights in 1991. ~owned a Jlhotography business prior to his retirement,  was a Lily Councilor from 1981 to 1989 and Mayoi: Protern fe< two years. He also served on the Slate  Board of Ecooomic DeveJoli!ne.nt, was a Direde< ol the New Mexico Municipal League and the National  l.eaRue of Cities. ~  loOks forward to using his government experience to assist Ille Board in dealing  witfl local government issues.  WELDON JOHNSON retired in 1996 after a 39 year career in Electronic Design and Manufacturing. He  founded a high tech, high YOlume manufacturing COfTll'.l?I))' in 1975 which grew to a 100 employeeS and  ocrupied 60;ooo sg. ~lie managed the construction bf !lie company facilifies plus the frequent modifica- tioos to accoovnodate new~  and equipment. Other buirding ~includes two homes and  the extensive renovation ci a third. Weldon and his wife, Baibara, will celebrate their 43rd anniversaiy this  year with their 3 children and 7 grandchildren.  JOHN KELUR, a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, retired from KPMG Peat MaJWidc in 1989 at  which time he was Managing Partner of its New Mexico ~e.  As a Public Accountant, he has extensive  ~  wori<ing with rana developers, construction firms, ski areas and other recreational ~  ments, and variouslndian Tribal entities. John has served on various Boards including ban"i~ areas and  oorrmercial ~  since retiring. lohn and his wile,_~. recendy moved to Sandia Heii;i.,, alter resid- ingjn other parts ol Albuquerque and Santa Fe since 1 '158.  DEBORAH MJUER has taug_ht chemistry at 1V1 Coomunity Colleee fe< 7 years and is ~ng  their  internet-based educational efforts this summer. She has an MS. in 'Chemistry from low.i Slate University.  She and her husband, Sam, have been Albuaueraue residents since 1984, and joined the Sandia Heiglits  community in 1995 aiofll! with her mother, Alice: In addition to authoring web sites, Deb's hobbies include  therapy dcigs (taking weir-trained dogs to visit in nursing homes and rosp1tals) and various crafts.  NANCY NOREM has a S.S. in Chemical Ens?ineering from the University of Arizona and an MS. from the  University of California (Berl:el~) . She is a l<egistere<l Professional Engineer and has been ~at  PNM for l 8 years, ~ible fe< the companys air quality programs. Much o( her current wOri< involves  the int~etation of aOd ~liance with federal, state, anil local air environmental regulations as t!iey  relate to PNM's operations. She and her family moved to Sandia Heights 1-1/2 years ago because o( its  physical beauty and reputation as a good place to live.  BARBARA ROSNAGLE has been interested in environment and land use fe< many year.;. She has served  on county and state coovnittees is a member ci the DOE Citizens Advisory Boarrl fe< Environmental  Reste<ation at Sandia Labs, and !Obbtes at the NM Slate Legislature fe< the League of Women \biers. She  and her husband moved to Al~uerque in 1984 from Guilford, CT, where~ raised three daughters.  They moved to Sandia Heights three years ago after ten Yl'"" in the Nor1h Valley. Samara's other 1n1erests  are reading, travel, gardening and now being a grandmcither.  ·  BILL WATERS is O..irman of the Board ci Direaoo and Founding Partner ci BPlW Architects & Engineer.;,  lnc.1  which has been in business over 25 years, ~ializing in the planning and design of educational  faci ities in the southwest. A native o( Arkansas, lie attended Mcansas S!ateleachers Colie!!e and received  a Bachelor of Architecture from Oklahoma State University. He has been r~ible for me design of over  75 educational facilities. He has registration jurisdiction in NM, AK, IV., CO, TX and holds a National  Council ci Architectural Registration Boards Certificate.  )AMES WISE is a Civil Engineer graduate from Texas MM. He retired after 38 years with the US. Amr(  Corps o( En!!ineer.;. He sefved as a construction project engineer and design pr~ manager in Texas  and Alaska, later serving as the Chief Construction ManaE Deoutv Duef bf Constru<:tion Division,  Chief Construction Division and finafty <!eP<Jty Division  ineer for Programs and Project Management  in Eu'!!P". ~ien<:e extends to family h0us1ng. hospitals,  rracks, runways and maintenance snops,  as well as Oiiier military construc!Jon.  Celeste Loughridge (above) greets  County Sheriff Joe Bowdich, who reported  on security issues in the Northeast Heights.  Board Member Jon Cashwell (left) dicusses  construction of the Kicks 66 on Tramway.  for a one year term and will now oversee and  coordinate functions of the ACC and Covenants  Coll1lliittee. 'the Communlcatfons, Membership  and Commwtity Services Committees were com- bined into one committee, chaired by Claire  Wilcox. Many thanks to outgoing Board member,  Charlotte 2.erof for her work on Commwtications  the past year.  The highest priority goals for this coming  year are those most often expressed by members  of the Association. They are: ( 1) monitor the  re mainin~ undeveloped land in or bordering  Sandia Heights for new development, and contin- ue to voice our interests in that development; (2)  maintain and improve governmental relation- ships established by the previous Board; and (3)  continue to evenly pursue enforcement of the  rovenants, addressing differences between wtits  and looking once again at standardization issues.  Outgoing President and Vice President,  Anne Yegge and Bob Kemble, were applauded for  their considerable efforts on behalf of the  Association as were all outgoing Board members,  including Tom Wray, Linda caldwell, Tuni Seidel,  Duke Colket. and Jeny Grayson.  John Slown, County Paro & Recreation Planner  points out public access possibilities for the  new South Domingo Baca Regional Park.  THE GRIT  THE GRIT.  is published quarterly  as the official newsletter of the  SANDIA HEIGHTS  HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  P.O.Box 20021  Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021  Phone: 505-296-1412  F<ro-505-296-2620  Homepage: http:/~.nm ia. com/shha  BOARD of DIRECTORS  Marshall Aungier  President  Claire Wilcox  Vice President  Ruth Friesen  Secrelary  Rob Loughridge  1 Treasurer  Erin Frinkman  Administrative Assistant  ~°o't,~~~~u  Jon Cashwell  Michael Gross  Chris Harmon  Geol'!(e Hight  Donliooper  Weldon Johnson  John Keller  lester libo  Irene Middleton  Debbie Miller  Nancy Norem  Lorne Rice  Margo Roberts ·  Barbara Rosnagle  Jonathan Sulin  Robert Thomas  Bill Waters  James Wise  EDITOR  Carolyn Hindel  Call: 505-856-1868 Fax 505-856-1792  Write: The Grit, c/o Hinde! Inc.  11.24 Marigold NE, ABQ, NM 87122  PRINTED BY  lntermountain Color  on recycled paper  ffee  Wednesdays lOom - Noon  September 10th  Larry & Kit Anderson  Special Home Tour!  150 Whitetail Road NE  821-3158  October 15th  Jan & Dick Stumph  ·  232 Spring Creek Court NE  856-3551  All ... id.nls of Sond;o Hts. welcome.  Pleas~ coll 856-6.282 lo be o host!  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  By Ruth Friesen - SHHA Secretary  Tue Board has been working with the following is.sues over the last  three months:  • Kicks 66 gas station, construction and sign variance request.  • Coonty capital Improvements Program. Priorities suggested by  SHHA: acxjUisition and development of open space for youth  reaeation aoivities, safety of stteets, and possible pedestrian paths  along some road.s in Sandia Heights.  • Proposed water tank at Tramway and Paseo del Norte.  • Signage mamtenance for North Sandia Heights and SOuth Sandia Heights signs.  • Possible acquisition by county of property for a park.  • outpost Ice Arena expansion plans.  • County line parking lot renovation and lighting.  • Development ofSOuth Domingo Baca Dam Recreational Facility.  • Community safety- A report by Larry Buynak, Corporate Safety Director of Sandia  Heights, stated that in 1996, there were 13 attempted break-ins; 4,524 calls received;  32.6 miles of road covered: and 2,005 homes patrolled in our area. The biggest security  problem is open garage doors. Numbers were provided for the Fire Department: 856-6644  - Bemalillo Public safety Dispatcher: 345-5600- and Sandia Heights Security  mobile phone: 269-3991.  • Architectural Control Committee  ongoing issues.  • Membership dues.  • District 8 Coalition liaison.  Do you feel in the dark, and left out,  wondering what is going on with these isrues?  All Sandia Heights residents are welcome to  attend the monthly Board meetings of the  Association, held the 2nd Wednesday of each  month at 7 PM at the Firestation on Paseo del  Norte. 11-te venue may be changing to the new  Sheriff's Substation in the furure. So call the  SHI-IA office to check.  OCT. BTU  WE'VE MOVED THE GRIT  MAILINGS TO A  MONTH LATER  STARTING THIS DECEMBER!  1he June 18th  SHHA coffee hosted  by Bonnie (right) and  George Hight of  Live Oak Loop was  a delightful morning  of delectibies and  discussion.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  County Of Bernalillo  &um.1nu.~  On July 3, 1997, the Lt. William Sabrava SUbstation was fonnally dedicated. Our  new facility was named for a brave and valiant man who fell in the line of duty. May the  peisonnel assigned to our substation always serve this community with the same dedica- tion and compassion that l!.t. Sabrava di.splayed during his years of se!Vi<:e to Bernalillo  Coonty. The attendance at the Grand Opening was splendid; but in case you missed it.  let me assure you we now have an impressive community meeting room in the substation.  Let's put it to good use. I'm depending on the neighborhoods to fully utiliz.e this~  ~Communication Center adjacent to the Sheriffs SUbstation will be completely opera- tional by the first of September. The center will have new stare-<>f-the-ans communications  equipment. including a Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) system. This system  will allow for efficient and effective use of emergency response units. An enhanced 911  system will integrate with the CAD providing more acrurate and precise information.  ~ta! radio consoles will allow di.spatch more flexibility to monitor radios and evenwally  operate the new County/ City 800 MHz Digital Trunked Radio system. This is good  news for everyone in unincorporated areas.  The Bernalillo County Public Works Division has initiated a study of the unincorporated  areas of North Albuquerque Acres and Sandia Heights South with the goal of adopting a  comprehensive drainage management and infrastructure plan. A public meeting was  held on July 9th to disrus.5 these issues and to establish a method by which ongoing public  review and comment may be obtained. Your input is invited.  The County Planning Commission (CPC) enthusiastically supported the new Ughting  Ordinance for Sandia Heights and North Albuquerque Acres. CPC recommended adoption  of the ordinance to the County Cornmis.sion and they will hear the issue this summer. The  proposal has met with such widespread support that l have to wonder if other areas of the  county will eventually decide to adopt provisions to protect our dark skies.  john Slown, the planner for Bemalillo County Parks, is initiating more public hearings  (see announcement on page 13) concerning the development of the recreational /parlt  fucilities at the South Domingo Baca Dam site. These hearing.5 will finaliu the plans  3¢ we can look forward to construction beyJnning this fall. A very prelirninaJy proposal  for a ban~ gilders' landing site near LaCueva Diversion Channel is on the (?.ble for  consideranon. There will undoubtedly be many public input opportunities to ascertain if  there is community support for such a facility and to address any concerns.  Once again I would like to say what a joy it is to walk with the Sandia Heights  ·  Homeowners Association. Your board has exemplary leadeiship. It has been a partirular  pleasure to be associated with Bob Kemble, who has been my primary contact as the  SHHA Government Liaison. As Bob leaves the Board l want him to know how much 1  appreciated his reasoned approach to problem solving. We like to think we slew a few ·  dragons together!  Hope you have a glorious autumn. Personally, it is my favorite season in New Mexico - warm days, crisp nights, blue skies and fresh green chile - what could be better?  Until next time ...  Bernalillo County Commissioner  District 4  SUMMER - 1997  Relieve chronic pain!  Massage doesn't reach it. Chiropractic  can't adjust it. Your deep or chronic pain  may need myotherapy.  Back Pain • Headaches • Musde Spasms • Neck Pain  Numbness • Hip Pain• WhipCa.sh •Sciatica • Tennis Elbow  FEEL GOOD AGAIN!  FREE INITIAL CONSULTATION AND  50& OFF 1STTREATMENT WITH THIS AD  MYOTEHERAPY  Lucy A. Garcia, T.P.M.  Board Certified I N.M. Uc. 11232  ~  881 -1214  ---..;;::::::;.  Ask for our informative brochure.  PENN-MONT Professional Plaza, Bldg. E, Suite 14,  Albuquerque NM 871 11 • Hours M-F 9-5  Regardless of race, creed, color,  or when you were born ...  Come Join Us Sunday morning!  You don't have to stop thinking when  you walk into our church.  Our pastor is known for his intelligent  and thought-provoking sermons.  ... · .... •., .  Sandia Presbyterian Church  Worship Services: 8:10am, 10:30am  Sunday School, all ages; 9:00am  Nursery available all services  Very active youth, adult,  and singles program.  Counseling service available  to the community.  Rev. Dewey Johnson, Pastor  10704 Paseo Del Norte NE, Alb. , NM 87122  (just east of Eubank), 856-5040  SPECIALIZING IN UNIQUE IANDSCAPE DESIGNS!  Sandia  Environmental  -DESIGNS- CaUDan  for details!  856-6617  • Plantings & Consultations  • Pruning, Oean-up & Hauling  • Reasonable Pricing  • 17 Years Experience  • NM Certified Nurseryman  ASKABOUf W WWATER  LANDSCAPE THEMES!  ii  THE GRIT  PUEBLO CIAIM UPDATE:  County & SMC Join Forces  by Anita Miller - SMC, legal Advisor  Bernalillo County has joine:I forces with the Sandia Mountain Coalition, and is now  represented by the same aaomeys, Carol Dinkins and Tom Baronan, of VlllSOn & Elkins,  Houston and Washington. The County and Coalition, as "inrervenor.;" in the lawsuit filed in  Derember, 1994 (Pueblo of Sandia vs. the u .s. Departments of Agriculrure and of the Interior,  protesting the Secretary of the Interior's refusal ID correa their parent and the Agriculrure  Department's obstruction of this correaion), are delighted that the Department of Justice, on  June 26, 1997, filed a comprehensive and revealing response ID the Pueblo's Motion and  Cross Motion for Swrunary Judgment  In December, 1996, Federal District Coult judge Harold Greene had ruled that this  case should be treated as an administrative appeal of Seaelai)' of the Interior Bruce Babbitt's  refusal ID withdraw the opinion of Fonner Interior Solicitor Ralph 'lllrr - which statecf that the  Pueblo's claim was without merit The PUeblo had alleged that Seaelai)' Babbitt abused his  discretion in noc honoring the claim, that he aaed under political pressure, and that he was  obligated ID decide controversies between Indians and non-Indians in favor of the Indians.  The Justice Department compiled the romplete reconl which was before the Secretary  in 1994. The rerord, which fills two large canons, indicates that the As.sis!ant Interior Solicitor,  Tun Vollman, who first recoounended the correaion of the boundaries in 1986, knew the  claim would affea the titles ID private propeny within the claim area, and yet advised that the  claim be granted! The only Mience of "political pressure" in the reronl is a leaer from then- Representative Rkhardson, urging Secretary Babbitt ID aa:ommodare the Pueblo, and a letter  trom Senator Domenid, Slating his opposition ID the claim based on exhaustive evidence.  The pleading.5 filed by the Justice Depamnent include a "Declaration" by the current  Solicitor of the lnteOOr, john Leshy, dearly Slating he was J1C( planning to recorrunend the  suspension of the 'lllrr opinion, since he did not think that it was erroneous. The Pueblo  alleged that the Solicitor had recommended the suspension of the 'lllrr opinion ID Secretary  Ba!X>i11, but that there had been political pressure by members of the CongresOOnal delegation  at the last minure, causing Babbin to change his mind. The filing also includes a lengthy affi- davit wri11en by S!anley Hordes, Ph.D., fonner New Mexico Stare Historian, which sununa- ri7.es the results of an intensive srudy he prepared, History if the Boundalies if the Pueblo <f  Sandia, 17 48-1860. Hordes' extensive research led him ID rondude that the Pueblo claim JS  without merit, and boL5telS the 'lllrr opinion.  The Pueblo will respond to the Justice Department's Motion in August. The Coult will  then decide whether to grant the Justice Department's Motion for Summary JudW™:nt thus  ruling against the Pueblo; or to rule in the Pueblo's favor, which would result m the claim  going back ID the Department of the Interior for reronsideralion by Secretary Babbitt.  This case is now moving rapidly. Stay tuned!  l l As .a representative of the  1  mortgage lender in the nation,  #  I'm committed to superior and  expedient service on your behalf.  As a Sandia Heights  Resident, I understand  the unique financial needs  of the neighbors in my  community. That's a big  advantage that helps me  put together a package  tailored just for you .••  Give me a call.  7 7  llllt...1111  1111111111  NORWEST MORTGAGE  II II II II II F~!;~~.!;?~~ 505-188-o354  --~-- .  Present this coupon for a ...  ,--------------..,  I FREE APPRAISAL! I  I for your next loan closed with Carol Graham I  Refinance to improve interest rate, term or take cash-out.  I Investment Properties- 2096 down means noPMI. I  I Vacation/Second Homes - anywhere in the USA. I  NORWEST MORTGAGE  ~  I  6121 Jnctai School Roed NE . &ite 122 . ~NM  61110-"''°  L.:.J I  Cal now/ Expire$ November 30, 1997.  =.- '- - - - - - - - - - - - - - .J  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Bird  Alarms  by Mike Clark  Songbirds defend themselves  against predators in many ways.  When alarmed, most birds either take  flight freeze in place or fly a shon  distance to hide. But when their  young are threatened, they become  much more aggressive. Birds also  work together in defense. They send  alarm calls, bunch in tight Hocks, or  mob larger birds.  - Fight or flight? On a walkway near your home, you may  notice that birds regularly fly out of a shrub or tree when you reach a  certain spot You may be crossing an invisible line marking what they  ronsider a safe distance. Adult birds will usually hide or tlee predators,  but if the same predators threaten their young, the birds may go on the  offensive. During the cnx:ial weeks of the breeding season, adults will  guard their nests with vigor. some will feign injuries, such as broken  wing.5, to draw predators away from their nests. Mockingbird parents  will even dive down upon the heads of hwnans who get too near.  Alarm cans. jays reaa particularly strongly ID cats and squir- rels and are likely to dive at them, sounding loud' jaay<alls, until the  predators move away. House Wrens give buzzing or rattling calls in the  presence of danger: Alarm calls are often higher pioched if the predator  IS overhead, like a raptor, rather than below, like a snake or cat.  Bunching. In the presence of raptors, flocking birds often  bunch tighdy and lly in erratic pa11erns. This seems to make it difficult  for the predator ID single out a straggler to Sllike.  Mobbing. 1'1ocks of species such as European Starling.5 may  rum upon a rapror predator and mob it A group of small birds may  mob a perched hawk or owl. The small birds will surround it; call  repeatedly, fly ID stay near it a5.5Ull1e aggressive posrures and some- times strike il Snakes are also mobbed and may even be bi11en. If you  hear a flock of crows making long, excited calls, look for the objea of  their attention. It may be an owl or rapror. Crows, in rum, are some- times mobbed by smaller birds, particularly during nesting season.  lfyou have arrY questions about birds, call Mike Clark  tU the Wild Blrrf Center- 332-4737.  'After yeaIB togethei; I  wouldllt think of retiring  without Han/  At The Montebello, we would never ask you to. Having small pets is jUSI  one of the many benefits of Albuquerque5 premier rental senior living  community. We're the only one with four levels of living and a beautiful  residential location. To retire in style, call us today to schedule a tour.  INDEPENDENT LIVING, ASSISTED L/VING,  INTER.MEDIATE & SKJLLED NURSING CARE  nc MOllcbt/lo OI Atadc111v • 10500 AcadtMY Roai HE  294-9944  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SUMMER - 1997  Architectural Control  By Chris Harmon - SHHA Architectural Control Committee, Chair  The newly elected Architectural Control  Conunittee consi.sts of 6 members - all volunteers  - Don Aunapu, Chris Harmon (Chair), Weldon  Johnson, Nancy Norem, Bill Waters, James Wise  and one ex-officio member, Don Hooper (fonner  Committee Chair). Toni Seidel and jeny Grayson  both completed their service la.st month, after han- dling numerous projects for the community in the  past several years. Marshall Aungier, after a year  of diligent service on the ACC, has moved on to be  the President of the Sandia Heights Homeowners  As.sociation. Don Hooper will De as.5isting Chris  Hannon as she takes over the responsibilities of  chairing the Committee, but will be phasing out  his involvement over the next few months. All of  these fonner committee members deserve thanks  from the neighborhood. Their thorough and care- ful interpretation of the covenants regarding  architecrural and landscaping projects, will benefit  all of us in the future and provide long term  enjoyment of our neighborhood.  The Committee would like to remind all  Sandia Heights residents that the Deeds of  Resttictions (covenants) for each of the approxi- mately 30 units in Sandia Heights state that all  exterior alterations to any resioence or property  require review and approval by the ACC before  any construction or site preparation can begin.  In addition to major renovations and  new houses, the covenants also require sub- mission of plans for approval on smaller  projects such as antellllas, re-stuccoing, re- roofing, new fencing, painting, the installa- tion of any outbuildings, pools, decks,  mechanical equipment which is visible from  the exterior of the house, and all other  exterior alterations or additions.  Al5o any major landscaping plans, must  be submitted for approval prior to proceeding with  any work. Application fonns can be obtained by  calling Erin Frinkrnan, the SHHA Administrative  Assistant at 296-1412.  Any new homes, or additions with a foot - print area of more than 500 sq. ft. mu.st have a  grading and drainage plan prepared by a licensed,  professional engineer, per County ordinance. The  ACC requires a letter from the County noting  approval of such plan prior to considering the  application as complete. The Committee needs  adequate information in the submittal for the  application to be considered complete. Frequently  forgotten noteS on drawings (when applicable)  include: readable setback dimensions from  property lines; readable dimensions on fences - both length and height; color indications; maxi- mum structure height above existing grade; grad- ing plan indicating cu~ and fill; and screens for  other roof mounted equipment  The Committee greatly appreciates a com- plete and thorough set of plans and applications.  We typically have up to 10 projects per meeting to  review and a clear set of plans streamlines this  process. As the neighborhood is "filling-in," the  Committee is challenged with interpreting the  covenants and the rights of property owners.  Many residents are adding extensive additions,  with ever-increasing house sizes. The Committee  reviews all for compliance with the covenants.  In projects the Committee deems neces- sary, immediate neighbors are invited to a  neighborhood review. Comments by neighbors  made during the review, and letters receiveil up to  5 days after the review, are carefully considered  by the Committee in their decision to approve or  deny the project They retain the sole authority,  however, to approve or deny the project. But  neighbor input is very helpful, especially on some  covenant issues which are open to interpretation.  If the project is approved, one Committee member  is as.5igned the project and monitors it during con- struction ... Monitoring" involves checking on the  construction approximately once every 2 weeks to  make sure it is in compliance with the approved ·  plans. By submitting the application, the home- owner grants the right for the ACC member to  walk the site as needed to check for compliance.  There have been projects started without  any submission to SHHA. Alert neighbors have  called in to report such projects and we attempt to  stop work as soon as possible. We greatly appreci- ate this help. Any work that proceeds without  approval is subject to removal (or must be  returned to its original stare as the case may be) at  the owner's expense, plus the cost of any legal  fees incurred by SHHA. If you would like to serve  on the Comminee, please let us know, and we  can include you in nexr year's ballot for election  to the Board.  Other Committee Members:  Don Aunapu, Weldon Johnson, Nancy Norem,  Bill Waters, James W1Se  I  \  S ome people say I  work too hard ...  but if you choose me as your  real estate professional, you'll  be glad I do!  ... how about some persuasive statistics:  MAX SANCHEZ, MBA CRS  Sandia Heights Resident  Direct Office: 880-2211  Residence: 856-2211  • 20 years of real estate experience  • Residing and specializing in Sandia Heights for  over 9 years  Main Office: 883-6161  MAXSANCHEZ.COM  i _H._P~EGG  REALTY.INC  • No other Realtor/Resident of Sandia Heights  sells more real estate in Albuquerque  • H. PARNEGG REALTY ' S LEADING  SALESPERSON!! AGAI N!  If you haven 't met me yet, these statistics might convince you ...  call me! I am incredibly prompt, thorough and get stunning results!  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  ·  Communications & Co.mmunity Services  By Claire Wilcox - SHHA Vice President and Committees Chair  Get With The Grit  Working with carolyn Hinde!, editor of  The Grit, is the focus of the Communications  Committee. Gathering news. visiting local  events, new sites and keeping SHHA Board  news uirto-date for you are some of the activi- ties that help make the Grit the fine well-rounded  community newspaper it is. (Last year The Grit  received an honorable mention in a city-wide  competition. So read and enjoy!) If you worked  on your high school or college paper and still  have a yearning to write articles, visit an open- ing (the new SUbstation is a recent example) or  submit a photo, contact Carolyn at 856-1868.  This is Ql.U: newspaper so please utilize it!  ~goppommities .,.,..~~­ for Sandia Heights  neighbors to come  together is the goal of  Community Services.  The Arts and Crafts  Bazaar has been a suc- cess for 4 years in a  SHHAI  ARTS & CRAFTS  BAZAAR  row, with area residents  SUNDAY  finding an outlet for  OCTOBER 19th!  their criifts, and the rest  of us finding a place to  buy unusual and home- r, :t.::  made gifts. This year ...,_,-._,,. __ _  the Bazaar will be on SUnday, October 19th  from 11-4 at the Sandia Heights Academy  on the comer of San Rafael and 1iamway. As in  the past. the Academy Parents Association will  have a coffee and bake sale on the same day so  you can pick up baked goods and gifts at the  same time. If you have arts or crafts you  would like to sell, call Claire at 856-6282.  Claire Wilcox and husband Dave do some  Christmas shopping at last year's Crafts Bazaar.  Wine & Dine Was Fine  Another Winetasting evening will be  planned for next March. We had over 120 atten- dees at our last affair and lots of special home- made hors d ·oeuvres, so I know this is a favorite  event of Sandia Heights residents.  Spring Fling Anyone ??  At the Annual Meeting in June some of  you expressed a desire to have a picnic in the  Spring. so this is one of the events we will look  at If you have any suggestions as to how to  A~er 23 years as a Resident and a Realtor,  nobody knows Sandia Heights longer or better!  '·  .  ' ~  · Patl.inzer  COMMIITED TO YOUR SUCCESS!  A SELLER'S DREAM  I know the market intimately and can effect a fast closing,  bringing you the !!ig~11osslble 11nce for your home.  A BUYER'S NECESSITY  I'm a professional, highly sensitive to your !l.!d!!g  ~qulremen ts; 11ersorial p.rgferences and fjnandal needs.  A PRO IN "PtAUJE RANGE MARKETING"  CALLME- l'U Fill YOV IN!  omCE 296-5400  HO•E 2 96-7272  ~' Prudential  ~  Hooten/Stahl Inc.,  --~~12.~2!_ __ _ _  accomplish the picnic let me know. Should it be  a pot luck? A catered affair? Call Claire.  SH HA Coffees  Coffees are scheduled once a month on  the 2nd or 3rd Wednesday from 10-12 am, and  are open to all Sandia Heights homeowners- men and women. They are held in the homes of  Sandia Heights residents who vohmteer to host  the event You don't have to open your home for  a tour, all that's needed is a kitchen or dining  room and some coffee/tea and maybe an  accompanying snack. If you have a special  hobby, collection or interest and want to share it.  that's fine too.  At our coffee in July, Carolyn Hinde), Grit  editor, explained how the Grit is put together  from start to finish which was very interesting.  The September 10th Coffee is  going to be a special affair held  at the home of Larry and Kit ·  Anderson, 150 Whitetail Road.  The Andersons designed their own  retirement home/office and are inviting us for  refreshments and a special tour. So come and  enjoy a few minutes with other Sandia Heights  neighbors and friends. Invite a new neighbor!  Have a rup of coffee, a house tour and catch up  on the news too. Thanks to Kit and Larry for  inviting us.  If you would like to do a coffee or have  suggestions for this event, please call 856-6282.  Other Committee Members:  Irene Middleton, Margo Roberts,  Debbie Miller  THE SAN'olA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  New Development  By John Keller - SHHA New Development, Chair  ~  the past few months, a number  of Sandja Heights Board members spent their  considerable eneigies on the following areas of  resident concern. The Committee ~atefully  acknowledges the guidance and assiStance of  County Commissioner Baibara Seward in these  important is.sues.  Kicks 66 Service Station  In COMeaion with the rurrent construc- tion of a gas station, car wash and convenience  store on Tullnway Blvd. just south of Pasco Del  None, Roberts Oil Company requested a variance  from existing county ordinance constraints, ask- ing for peimission to erect a 92 sq. -ft. sign 26  feet high. Over 200 personal letters  posing this  appeal were received by SHHA ~r mailing  notices of the variance to its members. The  Association advised the company owner, Mr.  Roberts, of these letters and sent a reque:st to  meet with Roberts Oil regarding signage, lighting  and other matters. The variance request was  subsequently withdrawn, however a meeting to  address our other concerns has not been sched- uled to date.  lighting Ordinance  Bernalillo County is considering an ordinance  to control illumination levels in North  Albuquerque Acres and Sandia Heights, includ- ing the shielding of outdoor lighting that adds to  light pollution in our comrmmities. The ordinance  is being patterned after one recently adopted in  the East Mountain area. So far it has not met  with any signili:ant oppo.5ition and is awaiting  final approval by the County Commission.  Enactment of this ordinance should a5.5ist us in  prevetm,ng ~. eJimin!1ting invasive and unnec- essary lighting m our area.  liquid Waste Ordinance  A new oolinance which will alfec1 septic  tank users in the county is being developed. The  project leader is Clara cates, Environmental  Engineer for the County Environmental Health  Deparanent She can be reached at 924-3650.  The SHHA New Development Committee has not  taken a po.sition on the proposed ordinance.  Ice Arena Expansion  As most of you know, last year's Board and  many cooperating neighbors objected to the pro- posed expansion olthe Outpost Ice Arena.  Despite approval by the Bernalillo County Z.Oning  Department, SHHA members were able to  convince the Commission to reject the plan based  on increased traffic and noise problems and the  sire of the structure being inconsNellt with the  county zoning oolinance.  Other Committee Members:  Jon Cashwell, Lester Libo, Bill Waters  Covenant Support  By Ruth Friesen - SHHA Covenant Support Committee, Chair  One of the committee's goals for this year is to put all SHHA covenants on the Sandia Heights  home ~ge: hap:!lwww.nmia.com/shha. This will allow all residents to have access to them. We will  also notify real estate agents through the Board of Realtors that this service i.s available. However, this  will not be an overnight effort. Currently, none of the 3 7 sets of covenants for Sandia Heights are  entered into a computer. Yes, you read correctly, 37 sets!. Each unit has its own covenants. We need a  100% acrurate typist to enter them into the computer, enabling us to put them on our Web site. There  are approximately 300 pages. Some are very similar, but the differences are crudal. If you know some- one who could do this data enny, call Ruth Friesen at 856-1593 or Debbie Miller at 856-7271.  There has been some interest expressed in changing covenants. The Board's Covenant  Committee will provide guidance and help units get organized to make those changes. To chanse any  set of covenants, 7596 of the homeowners in that unit must agree, and signarures must be noouized. If  you would like to be the catalyst for change in your unit, call 856-1593.  How do you know what unit you are in? Most, but not all, units are determined by the follow- ing: If the address has three digits, the first digit is usually the unit number (e.g. 418 is in Unit 4). If the  address has four digits, the first two digits usually indicate the unit nwnber (e.g. 1199 is in Unit 11).  To obtain a copy of the covenants for your unit, call Erin Frinkman, at the SHHA offire - 296-1412.  Other Committee Members:  Lester Libo, Lorrie Rice, Robert Thomas  All talks are free and will be held at the  Open Space Elena Gallegos Double Shelter  Picnic Area (off oi Tramway, north o( Academy)  SATURDAYS at 7PM  Call 873-6620 for more information  August 2 - "Colonial Hispanic Woodcaiving"  by Julian Romero, a Taos Santero.  August 9 - "New Mexico Dinosaurs" by  Andrew Heckert, including slide  show and dinosaur skin impressions.  August 16 - "The Mexican Wolf: An  Endangered Species" by Wendy  Brown, wildlife biologist with the U.S.  Fish and Wildlife Service.  August 23 - "Black Bears of New Mexico"  by Don )ones who has wori<ed with  NM Game & Fish for 10 years  studying the state's bears.  August 30 - To Be Announced  SUMMER HIKES meet at Pino Trailhead  in Elena Gallegos Pi01ic Area at 11 am  August 10 - Crass Identification with Maria  Sonett, Sweetwater Reclamation  August 24 - Geology of the Ellena Gallegos  with Prof. Frank Pazzaglia, Earth &  Planetary Sciences, UNM  ..............................  r~~~Bd:  Data Ent~  CllrratlJ, m If Ille 37 sets If cmnants  fl' Sadia leigbtS n 11 mm-. We m  a 100o/1 zcam 1J1iS1 11 n lbela iltD Ille  cumprter, II eu~le n ID pit tlem 11 Hr  Well silt Tien n a IDlal If appruimatelJ  300 ,ages. 111e are RrJ similar, ••t lbe  Mnmnmt.  tt JDI kllW ..  nu1111u1 lllis data  Hlry, call Bia frim1 at 856-1513 1r  llibi lliller ll 115&-7271.  ii\  ROOM  ADDITIONS  BATH~  '16695 ~ s12s:..o.  2426 Washington NE/2 blocks S. of MenauV883-4040/uc.• 21850  VALUE &: DESIGNER PKGS.  Come See  Your Bath in  Our Showroom  Products pre-selected  for value,  low maintenance  ._...,, .. ~OtLfUl,  and qwility.  li'{.'.fN REMODEUNG~  "0% down. 9.H APR on Approved Credit. 72 mo.  2426 Washington NE • 2 blks S. of Menaul • 883-4040  THE GRIT  Ifs Time for Parents to Go  Back to School!  By Debbie Webster - Double Eagle PTA, President  A Q UARTERLY PUBLICATION O F  Organizing Solutions  for your Home and Business  You're going to love the results.TM  856-3667  Call for information and a special SH discount  on a new book by SH resident Kit Anderson:  File Anything in Your Home  ... And Find It Again!  HOUSE & PET SITTING  STAY IN YOUR HOME  OR  DA ILY VISITS  MA TURF, RF.LIABLE ADULT  REFERENCES  JANICE  299-4768  are dedicated to providing outstanding real estate  service to the most important person in the world ...  ... YOU!  Thank you ... Sandia Heights sellers  for }Our business & referrals!  Call Sharon & Judson McCollum  umber I in Service & Sales since 1979  For Service & Results 22 Million Dollars in Sales!  ·~ A long list of sa.tisfied sellers in our careers  er Serving Sandia Heights Sellers since 1980  r  FREE Market Analysis. Call NOW!  <r Offering our Sellers a Full-Service, Comprehensive &  Aggressive "Estate Marketing Plan"  · FREE Market Analysis  858-8330/822-0080  111 7 Rockrose NE  $380,000  335 White Oaks NE  $259,900  2037 Quail Run Dr.  E  $199,900  SOLD in  Sandia  Heights!  38 Rock Ridge Dr.  E  $399,900  2706 Tramway Circle NE  $179, 900  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  Security patrolman, Chris Baran, removes a Bull Snake from a resident's garage.  If you need assis~n ce with wildlife, call 856-6347 or Animal Control at 873-6706.  Personal Safety Checklist:  From Sandia Heights Serurity  Most crimes are crimes of opportunity. A dangling handbag invites a  purse-snatcher. An unlocked window or door invites an intruder. If you eliminate the  opportunities. you could avoid a crime.  AT HOME:  • A woman living alone should use her first and middle initial and surname in  the telephone book and on the mailbox.  • Use of an unlisted phone number is best  • When changing homes, change door locks.  • lnsraJJ a deadbolt lock and a peep hole in the door.  • Keep house doors, garage doors and windows locked.  • Always check identification of repair persons, salespersons or police officers  who wish to enter your home. If you're still doubdi.tl, call the business to  confirm the identity of the person.  • Instruct children and baby sitters not to give out any information about who  is home or who is our or for how long.  • If you suspect your home has been broken into, do nor enter or call out: Call  the Police from a neighbor's phone.  •Draw shades at nighr and lea,·e a few lights on.  • Never iet a =ger into your nome when you are alone.  • Lights anu noise deter prowiers and burglars.  • Hiding a key outside is nor wise.  •You are never alone! Even when you're home alone, you must always make  ir seem that someone else is there with you.  SUMMER - 1997  Many residents have asked for a comparison of crime in  our neighborhood to other areas. While the data is being  compiled, we in the Security Department have provided the  statistics below. To join Security services, ca/1 857-8989.  SANDIA HEIGHTS SECURllY  CAll5 COMPARISON - 1996-1997  1".PE Of CALL:  JAN-JUN  1996:  Alarms .................................... :-,. ... 310  Open Door/Window.................... 32  Motorist Assist ........ :.....................  90  Breaking & Entering .....................  7  Attempted Breaking & Entering.....  8  Construction Site Burglary............  2  Vehicle Burglary ..........................  11  Suspicious Vehicle .......................  97  Suspicious Person .................... ....  47  Peeping Tom ................................  5  Theft (Larceny) ............................. 17  Animal Control Assist ................... 20  Lost /Found Pet............................. 27  Pet Nuisance ................................  13  Snake ...........................................  7  Family Dispute ........ :....................  8  Neighbor Dispute .........................  7  Loud Disruptive Party ................... 10  Fireworks Complaint ....................  3  Vandalism (General) ..................... 41  Mailbox Vandalism ...................... 52  Mailbox Stolen .............................  .6  Lost/Found Items ..........................  2  Deer Hunters ................................ · 0  Speeding Vehicle ..........................  5  Assault /Battery (Fight) ..................  2  Death Threat ................................  3  Unusual Special Request .............. 29  Salesperson Problems.................... 11  Phone Problems............................  2  Car Accident ........ :........................  1'0  JAN-JUN  1997:  ........... 306  16  66  9  6  2  3  57  39  0  17  6  42  10  5  7  3  4  2  28  50  0  f  3  0  1  3  2  30  6  7  6  Motorcycle Nuisance ....................  5  0  Fire............................................... 24  13  Rescue..........................................  29  5  Utility Company Assist..................  29  1 :2  Construction Sites..........................  6  1 :2  Vacant Houses (For Sale, etc.)........ 13  16  Specials (Extra patrols/observation) 24 '  40  Homeowners on Vacation ............. 1152 ........... 1166  TOTAL CALLS ................ , .............. 2189 ........... 2025  Priced less than you think.  Molly Maid gives you peace of mind that's pricekss.  • 600,000 cleanings performed last year  • Written Guarantee of Satisfaction  • Your maids are Insured, Bonded,  Uniformed, and Supervised ..  Call TODAY for your free, no obligation estimale  ~  I-~  MOUYMAID.  A Household Name Since 1979  232-3430  1 - 1:i. 1 • ~iJ';' "' - - I  ' Get Acquainted Offer  i $25  :VALUE  I  - 1  Call for Det:a.ils &  I  FREE Estimate  1 $10.00 Off !st Cleaning  I $15.00 Off 4th Cleaning  I  Ne~~:S:e 0 rs .  I  OJ!<r"""""""'"'  1- --·  ------ - -- - - ii.I  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  IB.fm]]])Imlr IPIB®IJ11 u LJEg Sandia Heights Couple  Turn A New Business Idea Into A Virtual Reality.  Norma Young takes a break  from business to smell the roses.  Wen Chuck and Norma Young made a trip to  New Mexico in \ 989, they were looking for a change  from their normally hectic life in Wilmette, Illinois. Not  that it wa<n't a fine life, but they wanted a place with a  linle more magic, a lot more sunshine and quality of life  visible just OJISide their bedroom window. Norma grew  up on the high desen of inland San Diego and was mis&- ing the open spaces. And their two sons, Chris and Paul,  were entering their formative teenage years in the  volatile Chicago school system. It was a good time to  make a move. Santa Fe was a beautiful city of an and  culrure, but "no middle class." Not what they wanted for  their kids. So they headed south to Albuquerque and  found a "working" dry and a linle piece  of Santa Fe for an affordable price in the  marvelous Sandia foothills. And as  Chuck says proudly, "From my den, I  can see 80 miles to the west and have  8000 square miles of scenery .•  The Youngs bought their  sprawling hacienda overlooking  Tramway when the road was "two  lanes and JO feet lower" and the south- erruna;i part of Sandia Heights was slill  a sparsely built field of dreams. The for- mer owner was a deejay on his way to  Denver and so 5000 sq. ft. of real mud- brick adobe became home. Chuck calls  it a "feminine house" because of its  sensual curves as opposed to abrupt  angles. and all the rooms are inner- directed around a Spanish style coun- yard with a fountain at its heart It was  the perfea transition for this free-spirit- ed, family-oriented couple who had  traveled the world and had experienced  a very interesting and diverse lifestyle.  By Carolyn Hinde/ - Grit Editor  How they met reads like a chap!er from A Year  of Living Dangerously. Norma had been a nun for 7  years in the French Order of St Joseph of Ouny, spend- ing the betrer part of her novitiate as a teacher in 1linidad  and the caribbean Islands. In 1972 she made a diffirult  decision to leave the convent, but planned to take a  teaching position in Grenada after a brief respite and  reintroduction to secular life. Chuck was already  erurenched on the soug_gling British colony, having left a  job editing educational materials for children ·s books to  join the Peace Corps. •1t was paradise," he said, of teach- ing at a girl's ~  school, renting a beachhouse for $ J 2  a moQth. drinking rum punches at an oceanfront bar  owned by john Wayne's valet, and sharing his digs with  Maix - the fiddler crab who came in from the shore  every night to sleep under his bed. Into this ideal situa- tion Walked Norma and she could oook!.  But as paradise is bound and determined to be  lost. their romance was sidetracked by a revolution over  independence in 1974, when the corrupt government  run by Erich Matthew Gairy and his treacherous band·of  thugs (The Mongoose Gang) lost control. The very  school where Norma was to teach was torched. A strike  paralyzed the island. There was no electricity or food  shipments. Jn unforgetrable tableaus of British irony,  natives "queued up" to loot the stores. Peace Corps vol- unteers were being evacuated to Barbados, but Chuck  remained oblivious helping Norma and her assoc:iares as  chaoo reigned.  They escaped to the Stares and were married,  eventually settling in the northern subum; of Chicago.  But they brought with them the beloved scyle of life that  the i.slands proffered - where "people were your enter- tainment" and there were no Couch potatoes sitting in  front of 1Vs. 1lllk was intimate and interesting. families  were the hub. They had mis.5ed the whole Nixon deba- cle, not to mention the drug culrure of the late '60s.  Chuck attended the University of Chicago at night for his  MBA. while Norma segued into a career as a registered  nurse. "So much of good nwsing involves education and  teaching. so It was a naruraI transition for me,· she said.  In 1979, after a stint at Baxter as a sales ana- lyst. Oluck met an account executive at Leo Burnett &  Company in Chicago ~ho persuaded him to go into  advertising. He had linally found his niche. The Research  Depanmem of this advertising giant allowed him to  Chuck Young ponders new  realms of communication in his  renovated office space.  merge his math background with his love of concepts  and as he puts it.. "make a living off ideas.· 'Iesting  those ideas through focus ~oups and research data  became the bacl<bone of the industry in short order. The  dollars involved in producing ads and television commer- cials were escalating and clients wanted reliable results.  Understanding the minds of people who aaually use and  buy products was a challenge and designing ways to  apply those insights in the real world ~  Chuck inter- ested. Moving to Tutham Advertising in 1983, he  became a Parmer an\I Research Direaor for seven years  until the spirit and simplicity of the southwest began to  beckon. So in 1990, smitten by Sandia  Heights, Norma took a nursing job in  Santa Fe and they made the move.  Chuck thought he would write  novels. But dam, this "new way to test  ideas" dominated his left-brain. Scaling  down quickly rumed to gearing up. The  Youngs hired local builder George  Bowling to redesign the garage into a  home office from which to launch a new  business venrure - Amerirest - looking  for a better way to understand the con- . sumer. And Chuck and a former associate  were confident they had it  Chuck calls their rambling adobe  a •feminine house" because of its  sensual curves.  (Below I. to r.) A cascade of water  and rock dominate the west side  of the home, while a natural rock  pool beckons to the south. Inside,  Bear dog guards his domain.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  After all. the old school saw research as the  ·ears· of the communication process, only listening to  the words. They were going to add the "eyes." empha- sizing the visual aspea of communication, thereby  "compleling the organism .•  Chuck likes to describes it this way. In the 16th  century, Jsaa:: Newton theocized that light was made up  of particles, while Dutch physicist Huygens said light  was a wave. Coincidentally, it was Thomas Young who  later showed both statements to be aue. Chuck says,  "The nature of communications is sirnilaL Images !low  just like a wave pattern, yet every particle of information  is important in generating the idea as a whole." So he  and his astute group of computer literates dissea 1V  commerdals and print ads to show which parts are doing  a superior job of getting the message across (copywise  and visually). and in what order the perceptions are  assimilated. Norma does the books and is ·manager in  general." They have won several David ~  Awards  for copy testing, and are also expanding this kind of test- ing into building brand awareness. This is where "virrual  reality" is becoming a fascinating tool. "How about tak- ing the consumer on a simulated nip through a new  score full of produas and ~g  their impressions before  the score is even buil~" says Chuck with Roswellian glee.  Cyberspadal development is definitely on the agenda!  Well, if you can  understand any of that,  Chuck just might like to  get your opinion one of  these days as Ameritest  sets up its new Focus  Group Studio and office at  2 San Rafael NE. where  the growing company has  moved into a larger, more  accommodating space.  Accounts like Coke,  General Mills, Unilever,  NationsBank, J.C. Penny,  Sara Lee. Petsrnan, Arby's  and Subway are keeping  him BUSY.  Back in social  reality, Norma and Chuck  are totally engrossed in  their family which, in  addition to sons Cluis and  Paul, has exrended around  the world - induding Ossi  from Finland, Roben from  Trinidad, Amr and Tarek  from Egypt, caroline from Germany and lrana from  Azeibajan. That's because of their involvement in AFS - American fleld Setvice - which h05ts exchange srudenrs  and rJves them the opponunity to study and live in this  countty with caring, nurruring families. It Started with  the US.Volunteer Ambulance Drtvers in WWI who want- ed to continue learning about their foreign neighbors and  has burgeoned into a successful national suppo!t syscem  now celebrating its 50th anniversary as a formal organi- :zation. Nonna learned about the program while her boys  were attending Sandia Prep and says "We've gotten far  more our of this than the kids. You learn there's more  than one way of doing things in this world."  Some of their CXIended family will be visiting  this August. Roben, having graduated from Cornell  University on scholarship is now traveling the world for  BMG Record Company. lrana, who spoke only her native  language when she arrived, got a 31 in English on her  ACT and is attending Lake Forest College in Illinois on  scholarship. The Youngs feel their own sons have bene- fined enormously from interaction with these interna- tional "siblings." Brothers Amr and Tarek offered many  insighrs into Muslim ways, while they and Caroline had  their first personal comaa with the Jewish/Christian cul- ture through the friends they made at Sandia Prep. Rules  about drugs. driving and dating are snia and apply to  the whole family. All agree that flexibility is key to host- ing and student acdimation. "It's all about relationships.·  QUESTIONS FOR TODAY  Who is Baha'u'llah?  The Prophet founder of the Baha'i Faith.  SUMMER - 1997  The new Focus Group  Suite is being readied  at Ameritest, 2 East  San Rafael NE.  (Below left) Chuck,  Norma and Paul,  center, tour The  Temple of Horus in  Egypt with exchange  students Caroline and  Amr, and his family.  If anyone is interested in the Albuquerque  Chapter of AFS. call Sandia Heights resident Linda  Picard, the new Presiden~ at 856-1332.  Leaving you in a state of "sensual reality" is no  problem at the Young house. Norma's love of Hora and  fauna is evident everywhere you look. ·1rs my memal  health break,· she insisrs. Rooes and bluegrass greet the  visitor at the lush ease entrance ... along with Bear. the  snow-white Husky and Remis who thinks he's a wolf.  Facing south, a flowing adobe wall surrounds their new  natural rock swinuning pool, xeriscaped beautifully with  sages, sedurn, smoke trees and wildflowers. There's an  unusual weeping crab apple near a covered kiva sitting  area. Wesrward looms a tumbling array of rock and  waterfall, native trees and sluubs that make one artfully  unaware of nearby traffic. It's here you'll come upon tur- tles snoozing under the groundcover and droopy-eared  rabbirs nested in the cool shade.  Norma works pan time for Osuna Nursery to  further her interests, and also highly recommends the  Desen Field Biology Course at UNM - camping out for 16  days in the Mojave, Sonoran, Great Basin and  Chihuahuan deserts. She's become adamant about native  plants and right now Bromus Tuaoris, or "cheatgrass,"  the invasive unposter from Montana brought in to feed  · cattle. is on her hit list Friends of tl1e Botanical Garden  had a treat indeed when the Youngs were induded on  their '97 GardenWalk. Maybe next year they"ll host  another touL lfyou need a "reality check" don't miss it!  anWJng \ 1cws froni lhc wraparound dt::cl Ye ~urc  10 sical your he.-vt1 S-t-19,000.  Max Sanchez, Jr., MBA CRS  880 ·2211 . 856·2211  What is His claim?  Baha'u'll8.h claims to be the return of the Spirit of Christ or "The Second Coming".  How could we have missed Him?  Christ warned, "But the day of the Lord shall come as a thief in the night".  How can we believe Baha'u'llah?  Christ said, "Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them" .  What are Baha'u'llah's fruits (teachings)?  Th.ere is only one God.  All humanity is one family.  All major religions come from God.  Women and men are equal.  The family and its unity are very important.  Everyone must receive an education.  All prejudice is destructive and must be stopped.  Religion must be in harmony with science.  We must investigate truth for ourselves.  Economic problems are linked to spiritual problems.  For more information on The Baha'i Faith, please call 856-1655.  iii  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  THE GREAT TREE BAN  (Coming to the City of Albuquerque August 1st!)  By Shirley Medina - Master Gardener  Committees in various locations wanting ID  ban certain books because of their questionable romenc  have been making headlines lately. Newspapers  throughoot the countty rovered actions by the Tuwne  Parle Homeowners Association Board  . g ID ban  xeriscape (as opposed ID lawns) becatlse~ appear- ance. Reports have shown up as far away as Orlando,  Florida, about Albuquerque's City Council passing "the  strongest cree ordinance yet. banning the planting of  five cypes of !IeeS. •  Are these bans warranted? Proponents cite  good reasons for their decisions, e.g., the need ID con- trol what our children read, what a ~  should  look like, and what cree pollen levels should be tolerat- ed in the war against allergies. While their reasoning  has merit ID a certain exten~ one cannot ignore the  concerns of opponents ID these bans: Why are these  bans needed? Who do they benefit? What are the shon  and long-term effects?  Five Families of Trees Outlawed  On October 21, 1996, the Albuquerque City  Council passed a saingenr Pollen Concrol Ordinance  aimed ac the elimination and/or reduction of certain  !Iees known ID be high pollen producers. Bill 0-51,  enacnnem 45-1996, sponsored by Alan Armijo, stares  that "cenam designated crees" are a "public nuisance  and health problem· and prohibics "their sale within the  rny of Albuquerque." This ordinance takes effect  August I. 1997. The r~ted lrees include: (I) Genus  Cupressus, ali memoers of the Cypress family;  (2) Genus /IUlipems, or male cedars thar are more th<m  rwo feer ta!! when mature; (3) Genus Morus, all mem- bers of the Mulbeny family; (4) Genus Populus, all  members of the Cottonwood and Poplar families  (except cultivars Pftemoni var. WISlizeni "Rio Grande"  Coaonwood, P rremuloides "Quaking Aspen" and P  acuminara "Lance leaf or Mountain" Cottonwood);  (5) Genus Ulmus. all members of the Elm family. Trees  that may be sold and planted in the Genus Populus  (above) - Plaranus "Sycamore" London Plane Ttee and  Fraxinus or "Ash· families - must be "identified as  hi$ pollen/high allergen potential by means of individ- ual labels.· Existing !Iees in yards have been grandfa- thered into the bill and wiU noc have ID be eliminated.  Anyone violating the ordinance through the  production, seUing. importing or planting of a targeted  cree shall be given nocice and allowed 7 calendar days  ID remove and legally dispose of the !Iee. Otheiwise the  violator, can be "deemed guilty" of a petty misde- meanor and subject to a fine up to $500.00. The  ordinance also provides funds for the mayor ro rondua  pollen and !Iee counts, antl provide public education on  IIee pollens.  Why discipline trees?  The ban is necessary, the ordinance stares,  because "many people in all age groups may be at  considerable risk of developing such allergies; and that  therefore actions ID reduce the production of these  pollens which cause the greatest health problems are  essential" The Albtxjllerque jOumal 9126196 reported:  It has been determined that "twenty percent of the  population is genetically vulnerable ID allergies,· and  the "designated crees· comprise about "fifteen perr.ent  of the varieties that grow in chis .climate..  The Council's actions ID help the 20% of resi- dents who have or may develop allergies is rommend- able, but its solution - banning trees, many of which  have been growing in Albtxjllerque for rwenty or rnoce  years, is ncx. Even with the desired reduction of pollens  from these crees. people wiU still be affected by chose  crees already in existence.  Many of our trees are nor native to  Albuquerque or New Mexico. They were in!Ioduced  here by poUtidans, deveklpers, and newromers. These  crees changed the face of our high desert landscape for- ever, replacing the wild grasses, chamisas, shrub oaks  and native plants which were regarded as dispensable,  ugly and weedy. AlbuqUC!que has seen phenomenal  growth in the past four decades, bringing change noc  only in landscapin$ but also in lifestyles. Tu say that  non-native or rertam IIeeS do noc belong here can be  likened ID saying that non-native or certain people do  not belon$ here! This may be stretching an analogy,  but the point is that we should celebrate diversity. Man  is dependent on the ecosystem. narural or man-made,  ID survive. The challenge before US is not ID eliminate  things that are unpleasant ID a few, but rather ID pr~  vide a variety of resources in moderate amounts, which  can help many.  If Trees Could Speak...  AU !Iees play an important role on Earth in  providing essentials by which man can live: oxygen,  erosion control, fruit, shade, allergy extracts, herbal  remedies, shelter and more. An aitemate solution ID  control the overabundance of certain IIeeS is possible.  First, educate deveklpers and others against the cloning  of landscapes in each subdivision as it is developed.  Residents do not need the same elm, coaonwood, pine,  ash, Chinese Pistache, or Desert Willow as their neigh- bor. It seems chat throughout the course of develop- ment in Albuquerque, certain crees have received crend  sr.arus. If one drives through specific neighborhoods,  it is very easy ID recognize which IIeeS received "most  Favorable" starus when the homes were built Such irre- sponsible planting has now resulted in too many "unfa- vorable" !Iees. l:iowever, this irresponsible planting is  still occurring. When other types of crees are deemed ID  cause health problems. will the power.; that be decide to  ban chem too? Why srop with crees? Grasses, as well as  native plants such as Sagebrush and Four-Wing  Saltbush are known ID cause hayfevtr. Grasses certain- ly romprise much more than I 596 percent of landscapes  in Albuquerque!  Secondly, educate the public on proper tree  selection, 1ree pollens, water requirements, and above  all, variety. The one city coundlor who opposed this  ordinance was on target when he stated that funds  would be better spent on educating and not mandating.  This makes sense. The Albuquerque Plant List pul>- lished by the City of Albuquerque Water Department is  a good place ID start The Xeriscape Ordinance is a good  model ID follow. It allows for percentages of certain  cypes of plant material in the landscape. and does noc  call for an ouaight ban of "certain designated" plants.  Concrary ID misconceptions, xeriscape does not call for  the elimination of trees. Ttees are importanU But rather  than ban, let's plant - many varieties! Using knowledge  and common sense, it's still ~  ID do this and be  environmentally and sodally responsible.  ~  This article is not, in any way, meant to be insensitive  to the suffering that alletgies or asthma can bring_ The authors  family also sulfet> these probkms. The S listed fMTHlies of trees  should no longer be planted. b<A a ban seems to be an extreme  measure. Publk: edication and continued monitoring offetS a  bener solution.  Rt!ferMces:  ABQ Journal Committee Badcs Ban on STrees-9/26/96  Cityol ABQ Coundl sm 0-51, No.45-1996, passed 1CV21/96  City ol ABQ Water Dept.-Albuqo.ieqie Plant List  Plants and Pollen leaflEI - NMSU Cooperative E>ct.5e!vice, et.al  Orlando Sertinel Southwest Tries to C/earAirof Pollen- 1MW%  Some plants that don't give hay fever. Mimoso, Barberry,  Buck:Jleia, Western Catalpa, Redbud, Fklwerin_i Quince,  Desert Willow, Cotoneaster, Hawthorn, Ash, Spanish  Broom, Hon•ylocust, Rose ol Sharon, Golden Chain, Crape  Myrtle, Apple, Mock Orange, Pines, Rowering and fruiting  Almonds, Cherries, Peaches, and Plums, Pears, Pyracanttia,  Lilac, Snowball, Vitex. (Words in Bold are Trees.)  MASTER GARDENER HOTLINE  292-7144  PIANf OFlllE S~N  Russian Sage (Perovskia atriplicifolia) is a multi-stemmed deciauous snrub or  perennial that grows 4 ft. tall with an equal spread. foe ioliage has a lacv appear- ance, is light gray-green in colo; and has an aromatic sagelike fragrance. Lavende;- blue flowers occur in long 18 in. spikes in summer and may iast tili the first frost.  Russian Sage is native to Western Asia and is cold hardv to at least -200°F. Plant .  in full sun to semi-shade in any well drained soil. Mix I part planting mix to 3 parts  .._  Russian Sage  Perovskia atriplicifolia  native soil for best results. Growth rat!'! may  be slow the first year but is much faster the  following year.  Planting: Build a berm with soil 2 feet around  the base of the plant. Fill the basin twice with  water to insure a deep soaking. For the first 2  weeks keep the plants moist! As time passes,  decrease the frequency but increase the  amount of water given. How often to water  depends upon many factors such as the time  of year and plant maturity. Once established,  Russian Sage can survive on deep soakings  every 2-3 weeks during the growing season.  Recommended Use: Russian Sage is a durable,  drought tolerant plant that does not grow too  tall. Use in the landscape as an accent plant  or to contrast against green shrubs. Fragrant fol iage is an additional asset for this  plant. Because the flowers attract bees, avoid planting too close to walkways,  swimming pools or anywhere people may congregate.  In Winter cut back the old flower stalks and in the colder East Mountain and  Santa Fe areas, cut back 6 -12 inches from the ground. Related species include:  Perovskia "Blue Spire• and Perovskia "Blue Haze" (lighter blue) which are both  hybrid crosses between P. atriplicifolia and P. abrotanoides.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SUMMER - 1997  South Domingo Baca Dam Recreation Plans  Some History:  Bernalillo County accounts for over 30% of New Mexico's population and is  expected to remain the most populous area in the state for the next 20 years. In  1940, the population was about 63,000, rapidly growing during the post-war period  and by 1960 reaching 262,000. From 1960 to 1990 the populaoon increased anoth- er 220,125.  Nearly 18% (85, 019) of County residents live within the unincorporated  areas (excluding the reservation, Kinland AFB, the Villages of Corrales, Los  Ranchos, Tijeras and Rio Rancho).  Citizen Survey:  In 1991, the State Comprehensive outdoor Recreation Plan conducted a sur- vey, identifying the 10 most significant issues confronting New Mexico for the next  five years. The issues are as follows:  1. The decline in public funds at federal, state,, local and private levels.  2. The deterioration and desnuction of park and open space areas.  3. The need to conrrol public depreciative behavior, e.g. vandalism. litter.  4. The need for srrong state leadership relating to financial as.5istance and  preservation of narural resources.  5. The need to provide a variety of recreation opportunities for all  citizen groups.  6. The need for planning srudies to assure appropriate protection and use.  7. The desire for recreational use to be CO!l$idered part of the management,  conrrol and monitoring of waters.  8. The increasing insurance liability, creating pressure to limit and  shut down facilities.  9. The increasing reliance upon volunteers and community groups.  10. The need to increase management and protection of histooc sites.  The vast majority of citizens surveyed felt that public parks and recreation  are important to them and their families. out of 24 possible types of desired facilities,  the top four were: WalkingrBiking liails; Indoor swimming Pools; Neighborhood  Parks; and Community Centers.  The three top-ranked park programs were: Before & After School Programs,  Programs for Teenagers and Youth Sports Leagues. Respondents were clearly in  suppon of paying fees for these services.  South Domingo Baca Park Plan Specifics:  Priorities were established for this w1developed area south of Paseo de! None  and east of Lowell NE (see #52 on map), through the survey and neighborhood  focus groups which are continuing. Here are those priorities in order of irnponance:  PUBLIC MEmNG  SJDISl)l'al by Bernaml l'.llJnty  P"dl'ks Ii Recreatiln 1~*3rbnent  WIBslay  August 20, 1991  Sandia P~bylerian ChUl'Ch  Imm 7:00 to 8:30 pm.  fie ll~cs II ~smsi111ill •e 1111 JrQISU 1111i~11Se •art Jim l1r 1111  AMAFCA Snuth Domingo Baca Dam  and the South La Cueva Diversion  ~ast 1.nust 1101111 ~reiaer Mmrii Slew field ii lll'B D11i1111m Dm.J  nis Is JHr 1pp1rt11i~ Ill' llJll n 01 eutnl wfi1111ti11  II OISI ncmtill hciitia.  u yn UI HI Ull b 1tt11~ •11111ld ikl II 1111111, -em cutlet;  .l1b1 St1n, Park Planer 11714-1851  I' •Iii c••lllJ II li1 II  Beraalill1 'IUaty hrts & lecrulln,  &2a l111as llW, ltllll~aei,1e, Ill ITID2.  • Land acquisition for neighborhood parks r------------,----,_ ____________  ...J  • Designation of trails  • Multipurpose field-complexes  • Regional indoor aquatic facility  • More neighborhood parks  • Programs for teens  • Acquisition of land for open space  • Senior-citizen programs/facilities  • Passive recreation areas  • Physical/Mental Disability programs  • Before & After School programs  • Year-around gymnasiums  • Regional indoor complex  • Supervised late night recreation  (;;;;\  • Large special events park  ~  • Renovation of existing facilities  • Improve maintenance  • Area golf course  The Recreational Area Proposal was presented to AMAFCA at their June  26th board meeting. The County is requesting a lease agreement Plans call for a a  day use horse arena which will include horse pens, dressage area and benches.  There will be a picnic area and playground with play equipment, tables, shade srruc- rure, basketball site and a walking rrail with a par course. The proposal also contains  plans for furure game fields, i.e. 2 or 3 soccer fields. Trail projects are being coordi- . nated with the Public Works Depanrnent The developed area is expected to be  about 2 acres and will not be a commercial facility. It will not have lights and will  not be used for competitions or fee-based activities.  Discussion proceeds on where public access to the area will be established.  Parking lots may be developed along Paseo del None or Eubank. The Nonh  LaCueva Darn area has been requested for use by hang gliders, and the location of a  landing site that will not conflict with the day horse arena is still to be determined.  The community is invited to a public meeting on August 20th at Sandia  ~~~1~~~m~hlo~  0  I ~  J)  #52- proposed area for South  Domingo Baca Recreation Project  #58 - San Bernardino Park in  Sandia Heights  #39 - N. ABQ Acres Cafetorium  #40 - North Domingo Baca Dam  Soccer Field  #8 - Altamont little l eague  NP - indicates land acquisition  for a neighborhood park  and "0 much more To1:illy energy dfo:1c.'nt  with p:i.s..i;ive and oc11vc: <;Olar ~al' UpJ;llt'd  b :l th ~ :lnd bedrooms . c.'>; lrem.: rrir.k of  ownership' 923 Tramway Lane NE.  Max San chez, Jr., /\1BA CRS  880·2211 . 856·2211  THE GRIT  A QUARTERLY PUBUCAT ION OF  DISCOVER how we've grow ,!:, ,~ Wild Bird Center.  If you've never been in our store, or hov~rj~ been here in o while,  you're in for o surprise. Come in and mcg-{l?I at the wondrous  "'I  norure items we've recenrly assembled ,fp your pleasure.  DISCOVEn  Uf h1  I"'\ our 100% organiS gardening products.  >1 :j/  Environment and bird safe. We've teorne€1 up with the largest moil  ,:' ~ . -i  order organic garden products distribuf:br;,in the country and hove  been designared their exclusive retail f> .. 'u .. t.,let.  ~:111  DISCOVEn  t· m  I"'\ New Mexico's ldfgkst selection of bird  feeders, baths and bocl~ard items. P(i1s.f.quality binoculars including  Nikon, Swift Instruments, 13ousch & Lomb. Oushnell and Sworowsl~i.  7 days o week. N-ort.-Y:ir. 10 om ro 6 pm Sun. Noon ro 5pm.  NEW CUSTOMER COUPON - - ·- - - - - - - .J  Wild Bird Center is proud ro announce ir will be 00noring up ro  1 CXXJ lbs. of wild bird seed per monrh ro rhe Rio Grande Nature Center  as porr of our ongoing communiry irM'..)/veme()t.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  AViewfrom  the Ranger's  Station  By Floyd Thompson Ill - Sand~ District R;inger  Dear Friends:  I dedicate this article to Mr. John Southwick,  one of our !005! llO!eWO!thy colleagues who rereruly  passed away. I consider him the father of the highly  active volunteer program we enjoy today. In 1980,  teamed with then Ranger jelly Greer and john Hayden,  he spent tremendous amounts of energy COO!dinaling  and recruiting volunteers for the !rail system and the  wilderness area (Sandia Mountain Wilderness was cre- ated by Congress in I 9 78). He left quite a Legacy.  Thank you, john Southwick for what you gave back to  the land.  )WlC 1 997 marks my ten year anniveisary as  Di.strict Ranger for the Sandia Ranger Oisnict. I thought  it might be time to reoount some of the acromplish- ments of this decade. We have enjoyed a period of  increased emphasis on forest health and recreational  enhancement for the Sandia and Manzanita Mountains  and Cibola National Forest In 198 7, reponer Mark  llly\or published some of the goals I had In mind for  the Dlscrict They have expanded greatly, but let's  review them.  I Identified a need to establish. Sandia Friends  groups to assist the Discrict in non-profit parmer.;hips.  This lead to formation of the Friends of Tijeras Pueblo.  This group has been instrumental in costshare effons to  implement the Tijeras Pueblo site interpretation and  hast educational programming dtuing most of the '90s.  As our volunteer cadre on the Distria reached more  than I 00, the idea of Friends of the Forest marured.  Our own volunteers began to see we needed help to  suppon the variety or programs being developed.  Through diligent effons by Individuals, the long await- ed New Mexico Friends of the forest was chanered this  Spring. This group will need your support - it's your  way to help give ~k something to the mountain just  as john Southwick did so many years ago. (See the  box for more details.)  l also identified the need for more emphasis on  trails and aa:ess to the Forest Our signing has gready  improved since 1987, burl never imagined the gains In  aa:ess and fiacilities. The Foothills Trail System is now a  reality in pannership with City of Albuquerque Open  Space. The Pino, Oso Corredor, Hawkwatch, Media  Springs reroure, Piedra Lisa and Sandia cave rehabilita- tion, Cedro Peak and Otero Canyon Horse & Bike 1lails  were all developed this decade. Much work has been  done to keep the La Luz and other !rails open and  maintained for heavy foot traffic. The Crest Trail has  been reworked and bod! narure trails at the Crest have  had major rehabilitation. Trail heads ln Bernalillo  Watershed, Juan Tabo Basin, along the foothills,  canyon Estates, Cienega, Otero canyon, Tunnel  canyon and Ceclro Peak have all been developed. New  access has been secured for Embudito and Bear  Canyons through work on the High Desen Sector  Development Plan. The Tramway nail was made a  reality through agreements with the Trarn. CcOOH.0\111- ay ski trails were expanded and improved along the  Crest and in the Capulin area through partnerships with  the New Mexico ski Qub, UNM Ski Team and conces- sionaire, Jan Moore. Our horse groups have helped  greatly with !rail systemS to improve aa:ess for these  a::tivities.  We have made great strides in interpretive pro- grams and facilities through cooperation with  Southwest Natural and CUitural Heritage Association,  the 'Dam and the Friends ofTijera.5 Pueblo. <Xlr greatest  boost has come through our Fee Demonstration  ~.  which supports basing more of our programs  and' recreational management decisions on revenue  suppon rather than appropriated doDars. The fees have  allowed us to fully staff the Crest Information Center  and begin limited programming at Doc Long Picnic  Ground. Our goal is to have full services ar all our key  visitor use areas on the Disttia.  What was not envisioned was the tremendous  progress in public acceptance of Forest health treat- ments to meet the rising hazards of wildfires. The  Forest needs fire as a key element in securing its health  for furure generations. With support from New Mexico  State Forestry we organized the lnteragency fire  Protection Association and a partnership with the  Backyard Tree Farm Program. Through these programs  we are now in the foreTront nationally in developing  Forest health treaanents. In the backyards of the East  Mountains, we have CO!)lpleted over 1200 acres of pre- scribed burning on this highly urbanized area, and are  now practicing community forestiy on an intensive  scale there. Through our partnerships with the  Depanments of Energy and Defen..<e, we have designed  major landscape treatment plans for the Manzanita  Mountains. Our wildlife warers and vegetation treat- ments have conttibuted to improved habitat for mule  deer, bear and rurl<ey.  Many things still remain. Wich NM Game &  fish, we continue the srudy phase for reintroduction of  Rocky Mountain BigHom Sheep. During this decade  we saw the last of tlie sheep disappear. We hope they  can once again roam the high Sandias. The land claim  by Sandia Pueblo still remains in litigation, pending res- SUMMER - 1997  o!ution by the Courts as to what will be the furure for  the west side of the Sandias. The ethnographic study,  rurrentiy in progress for the Sandia Mountains, shows  many pueblos and American Indian groups, as well as  Spani5h land grant heirs, have aaditional rultural uses.  The outcomes of these isrues will be crucial in finalizing  the Forest Plan now in progress.  l invite you to become actively involved in the  furure of these mountains. They are the single greatest  natural resource of the Albuquerque metropolitan area.  They deserve your support in time, dollars, services  and concerned actions. join the New Mexico Friends of  the Forest, friends of l1jeras Pueblo or any other con- servation group working on the mountain. You can  make a difference!  SUB-ALPINE FOREST & MEADOW flELD TRIP  Saturday, August 9. Call 281-3304 to RSVP.  9AM - !PM- $5 per person.  Meet at Ellis Trailhead Parking Lot  Bring lunch, lo!s of water, hat and sllfisaeen.  FEE DEMONSI'RATION PROGRAM  The program now Includes the Las Huertas  Picnic Ground and Sandia Cave Parking Lot lt's impor- tant to remember that the Daily Pass ls good at all sites  on the mountain for the entire day of purchase - that's  12 sites and over I 00 miles of trails for only $3 a car- load. The $30 Annual Pass allows unlimited visits to all  developed sites within the Fee Demonstration Area and  are available ar the Supervisor's Office at 2113 Osuna  NE in Albuquerque and at the Sandia Distria Office in  lljeras. Bring your car and aurent registration in with  yru Call 281-3304 for more information.  SAVE A TREE PROGRAM  Celebrate a birthday, anniversary, or the mem- ory of a family member or friend by planting a tree! A  $10 tax-deduaible donation to the Forest Service will  plant up to 15 seediings. Species and location is based  on need and plant availability. For a gift that keeps on  growing, calJ Neel Marsh at 281-3304.  WHAT'SNEW?  The upper parking lot and observation deck at  Sandia Crest will be under renovation this summer, but  the Crest House will remain open for business. Look for  bener viewing stations. Bear canyon Trailhead was  opened on National Trails Day, June 7th. It provides  another quality access to the Foothills Trail at the end of  Spain, east of namway. Thanks to the High Desert  Corporation, this property will be donated to the Forest  Service next year. canada Reservoir is another projea  associated with the High Desert Subdivision, located on  an easement within ihe national forest ConstrUaion  already started and will take 6-12 months to complete.  New Mexico Friends Of The Forestr---------,  If you hike, bike, run, ride a horse or use the forest in any other way, we know you enjoy  You're Invited to Join!  what nature has given us. All that traffic takes a toll on our forest lands. With limited  You can be part of this effort. Work  funds and personnel, the US Forest Service is hard-pressed to take care of the thousands  with friends, visitors and USFS people.  of acres in this area. That's why we formed New Mexico Friends Of The Forest.  Who We Are.  NM Friends Of The forest is a newly chartered, non-profit organization of local volunteers.  We're dedicated to wo•king in partnership with the US Forest Service and other groups and  individuals to maintain, protect and restore the natural, cultural and scenic resources of  New Mexico's forest lands for the enjoyment and use of present and future generations.  Our focus is conservation and education within the Sandia and Mountainair Ranger  Districts of the Cibola National Forest and adjacent lands.  What is the Need?  This uniquely beautiful land can't wait another minute. It truly needs our help! US Forest  Service funds are inadequate to handle increasing land management efforts and impact  control. New Mexico Friends Of The Forest will work to meet forest needs. Learn more  about how you can be a part of this vital effort.  What We Do.  Conservation • Education • Restoration •Site Stewardship• Wildlife/Habitat Monitoring  • Trail Construction/Maintenance • Visitor Services • Fundraising • Volunteer Services  ADDRESS ____ ~--- CITY, ST., ZIP-------- PHONE --------- Dues/Donation:  $10 Student  =  $15 Individual  _$20 Family  _  $30 Organization  _  $50 Sponsor  _  $100 Benefactor  _  $250 Life Sponsor  Make checks  payable to:  NM Friends  Of The Forest  _  $500 Corporate Sponsor  Mail to: NM Friends Of The Forest  P.O. Box 1832, Tijeras, NM 87059  L---------.J  iii  THE GRIT  As a native of Chicago, homerown of the infamous columnist, the lare Mike  Royko, I have always had a keen interest in what's happening.5 around my corrummity  and a desire to share ideas. ~  the editor of The Grit makes me privy to certain info  that should be shared. Then ag;nn I'll let you be the judge. Following are my notes on  OCCWTences over the last three months. If you have incidents to share about living in  Sandia Heights, faas about our area or surrounding areas that impaa ours, I'd like to  hear about them. We have a lot of the same concerns and jl.l5l might find some answers  in between the lines.  Orange barrel alert. The upgrade of Paseo de! Norte east of 1-25 to Wyoming  to six lanes is starting later rhis year and will take about 18 months. Crews may be  working 2 4 hours a day to speed up construaion. naffic will still use existing roads  while new lanes are built to the nooh. 1hx:ks will be allowed on the new section and  development along Paseo should take off once it's finished. Look for speed limits of 4 5- 50 mph. and video cameras and sensors ac some interseaions. Bernalillo County is still  acquiring right-of-way to widen rhe rest of Paseo to 'llamway.  Beware of rearers with a green thumb. The ABQ jownal recently reported  rhe arrest of a Sourh Valley man on suspicion of "growing hundreds of hybrid marijuana  planrs in a sophisticated nursecy at his home.· Well we had a taste of rhis kind of aaivi- ty right here in Sandia Heights. Renrers of a 4-bedroom house in the area moved with- out norice, leaving considerable damage behind from rhe rending of marijuana planrs in  5 of rhe rooms. Black plastic covered rhe windows, grow-lights were left in rhe ceiling  and carpeting was stained wirh fertilizer and porting soil. Anyone involved in renting  rheir homes should consider doing spot checks of !heir premises and amending their  leases to allow for such inspections.  Mail instinct. If you're mailing a package rhat weighs more rhan 16 oz., don't  leave it in your mailbox for pickup. It must be cancelled at the post office in rhe presence  of a derk for security reasons. Orherwise you might have it returned. And while we·re  on i~ there have been a number of calls regarding mail disappearing from mailboxes  larely. Scam artists? Probably ~  but Sandia Heights Soolrity recomMends not leaving  outgoing mail in your mailbox all day. Have important checks like Social Soolrity and  Pension automatically aansferred to the bank. Never have a credit card sent to your  home. Arrange to pick it up at the post office, regisrered mail.  Fire alarm. An elearical fire broke out in a neighbor's home in the middle of  rhe night a few weeks ago. By the time the smell of smoke woke us up, flames were  leaping high into rhe sky, and fire cucks were already screeching to the scene. We  found out larer that the rhe fire had burned the phone lines, but rhat both rhe burglar  alarm and smoke detectors had been wired to the Cenaal Alarm number and alerted rhe  fire department wirhour a phone calJ. The family escaped wirhout injury, and rhe house,  !hough severely smoke-<iamaged, is being repaired. Your insurance company may help  you rewire your smoke alarms to add this safety feature.  Not on }'UUT time. The schedule is tight  and the pressure is on. It's }'UUT move and there's no  room for real estate agents with their own agendas.  If they're figuring things out on the job they haven't  done their ho!lle'M>lk and they don't know the territory.  Linda Caldwell knows Sandia Heights. She's been  a Homeowners Association Member since 1982.  And she's been busy selling the area for over 19 years.  It's that ':CNV'f that got her into the Who's Who in Nev.r Mexico  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  Ruth & Frank Gurd  of 2032 Quail Run Drive  were the first hosts  on the '97 Wildflower  Club Garden Tour.  The Curds moved to  Sandia Heights in 1989  and started their beautiful  garden with the help  of local landscar.e  designer, Judith Phillips.  The Gurds st~nd in front of a bevy of chocolate flowers, so sweet  that a neighbor who is allergic to chocolate can't get near.  Residential Real Estate, the top IO Coldwell Banker Metro Realtors and named a  Previews Property Specialist. It's what keeps past clients recommending her over and CNer again  When it romes to selling _>oor home, Linda Caldwell doesn't fool around.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SUMMER - 1997  ff you're paying  more than $18  per month  for  monitoring,  let's talk!  We'll monitor any system.  FREE  repr~ramming to our  monitoring center.  v' No long term contracts  v' No price increases- our rates are guaranteed  v' Repairs and upgra~~s of e.xisting  systems at competitive prices  v' No premium for evening  and weekend repairs  4 /\L/\RM ?  SERVICE  a ---------------------- a  Deal directly \\ith the mrner.  A Sandia Hci~hts mident with 21 years  experience. Call Bob Phillips at:  858 ... 0548  ! Ask About Our Specials !  NEED STORAGE SPACE?  NEED BOXES?  Come by  BEABCANYON  SELF STORAGE  4730TRAMWAY, NE  (Just North of Montgomery  Next to Giant&. Smith's)  .292.-:2300  BMC ROOF MAINTENANCE  BMC  ROOF MAINTENANCE  •PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE  *RESTORATION •REPAIR  *MAINTENANCE CONTRACTS  * COMPLETE REPLACEMENT  FREE INSPECTION  897-3766  FAX 897~868  LICENSED AND BONDED  If you're as upset as I am by seeing broken sprinkler heads and water running down the  StieetS during dry weather, now there's an OU!let for our frustrarion - Tue Waste Hotline: 76S-3123.  Neighboring traits. The first Mormon Church in New Mexico is being planned on a I 0-acre  site at Eubank and San Franci5co NE. Its foocprint will be 15,000 sq. ft. and have a single spire. The  new jewel Osco is scheduled for opening sometime in November of '97 with 65.000 sq. ft. of product  space. It will offer a full deli, bakery, fresh fish and tloral deparonents, and new Pet Cemral. Bank of  America will be on the premises. The medians along Academy near Tramway are to be xeriscaped with  low-water-use trees and shrubs and designed to look like a dry riverbed. They will serve as mcx!els for  the furure re-landscaping of 11 acres of medians further west along Academy. Bluegrass was supposed  to be replaced, but the city's capital Implementation Program ran out of funds. Residents who had  heard about a "lighted ball field" north of.the Allegro Apartment oornplex can rest easy. County Permit  restricts lights in that park which will  be open from 7am to 9prn. acaxd- ing to Antelope Run Association  Presiden~ Mike Creeden.  High Desert lowdown.  Another trailhead to the Sandia  Mountains is just about finished at  High Desert Partdng for 30 vehicles  will be available at the east end of  Spain Rd. Look for a new informa- tion board with maps for hikers.  bikers. walkers and joggers.  The Highlands, a new estate lot area  has opened up at High Desen with  3/4 to 2 acre plots ranging from  $175,000 to $425,000. Whew! Jog  by this new subdivision on the  annual "Run For The Hills" spon- sored by NM Spoos & Wellness on  Sep!ernber 7th. Proceeds benefit the  A.BQ Boys & Girl5 Club. Reservation  forms are at the High Desert Office.  Sandia Heights residents Pat & Duke Colket (left and right) join  in festivities at Habitat For Humanity's Red & White Ball.  Fax me stuff at 856-1792!  A Crafty New Way to Recycle:  UNM's Wemagination Center  By Carolyn Hinde/  The University of New Mexico's  new Wemagination Center opened for  business June 27th, at 40 I 0 Copper NE.  Wernagjnation means "people ~g  together" and offers a new way to recy- cle. having a whole lot of fun in the  process.  It's a projea of the UNM family  · Developmenr Program. which has a 12- year hisuxy of bringing parents. teachers  and children together as aaive partners  in learning. It provides free assistance to  all New Mexico school distrias and is a  recognized national education mcx!e!.  The Wemagination Center  colleas and disuibur.es clean. non-toxic  objects,  manufacturer's  rejects.  by-produas. overruns, distributors' sam- ples and oversrock items and recycles  them into craft, entertainment and  learning experiences that make people  really use their ima~ns.  The ceruer has rooms of "srutl"  and plenty ideas on how to use it There  are qualified staff to help train teachers  Wemagination Coordinator Amy Peterson (left) welcomes  visitors along with Claudia Medina, Family Development  Director Maria Chavez, and Center Trainers Diana  Montoya & Rosalina Hundley. Training Director Mary  Dudley and Project Director Michael Laflamme are behind.  and group leaders to develop innovative. and educa- tionally sound projects for schools, senior centers.  nursing homes. day care, scouting and craft classes.  One area has a lightbox on which to examine the intri- cacies of certain recydables. And there's a huge stor- age space for papers and plastics and bolts of fabric.  Businesses can give a tax deductible  donation, while divening their waste items from the  landfill to the classroom. They can avoid the labor and  cost of disposing of excess materials on their own and  have the satisfaction of conaibuting to our schools,  fumilies and environment Communities gain a =- effective, citil.en-based recycling program.  Children have access to hands-on materials  for the home and classroom that they would not other- wise have. Creativity can soar as projea materials in  many colors. texrures . shapes and siz.es are available.  Parents and teachers can obtain large quantities of  low~ materials and rum trash into treasures.  Contact Wemagination Coordinator Amy  Peterson-277-4236, for infonnation on how your  company can help or you can benefit fonn this great  idea. Here's a list of some of the materials offered:  • adhesives and capes • basins. trays and  containers • bottles and caps • cardboard rubes •  ceramic tiles and carpet samples • electronics and  wires • fabric. felt. & notions • foam punchoms  &sheers • leather pieces & soaps • metal cans, hard- ware a& machine parts • mylar & plastic sheets & rolls  • packaging materials • paper. printed pieces. trim •  pens. pencils & markers • plexigjass • rope. yam &  twine • storage fixtures. barrels & bins • strange  objects • pipes & joints • vinyl & wood in all .siz.es.  So go take a look and sran brainsrorrning!  THE GRIT  Too Many Tomatoes? Try 'em Dry!  GOURMET DRIED TOMATOES  If friends, family and neighbors are tiring  of your abundance of fresh tomatoes, try preserv- ing the excess by drying. Gounnet dried tomatoes  purchased at Specialty food outlets and gounnet  shops are quite expensive, rosting from $10.00 to  $20.00 per pound.  The best variety for drying are Roma  tomatoes. Tiley may contain as m uch as  15% solids with 8596 water. Most varieties of  rouhct: tomatoes only have abOut 6% solids and  94%water.  Not all tomatoes can be dried succesSfully.  Tomatoes occasionally develop black spots during  the drying process due to low acid content or from  oxidation. Select high acid tomatoes to prevent  blackening. The black spots are not a food safety  problem, but are not as appetizing as the fully red  dried tomatoes.  Choose firm, ripe, bright-red, vine ripened  tomatoes. Don't refrigerate tomatoes before diying  as it causes breakdown of the cell structure and  gives them a watery texn.ue.  To prepare tomatoes for drying, wash and  remove the center stem core. Slice Roma tomatoes  lengthwise in 1/2-inch slices or halve or quarter.  Peel them, if desired, by immersing in boiling  water 30 to 4 5 seconds. Immediately plunge into  cold water and peel.  Sun drying requires the most time; an  electric dehydrator requires the least. To dry toma- toes in a dehydrator, place them skin side down  on screens and dry at 140 degrees F until tough  to crisp. To use New Mexico solar power, place  tomatoes on food-grade plastic screens, skin side  A QUARTERLY PUBLICATION OF  By Patricia Aaron - Hpme Economist  Cooperative Extension Service, NM State University  down. Do not use galvanized, copper, fiberglass,  vinyl or aluminum screening; the aluminum  reacts with acids in fruit Elevate screens at least 1  inch above the table with spools or bricks to allow  good air circulation below the tomatoes. Cover  with a cheesecloth tent to protect from insects.  Dry tomatoes in direct sunlight; move screens  periodically to assure direct sun exposure. To  destroy insects or eggs that may be on sun-dried  tomatoes, heat them in a 150 degree F oven 30  minutes.  To store, package tomatoes in freezer bags  and place inside of airtight glass jars. Refrigerate  or freeze until needed. Use them like stewed  tomatoes for seasoning salads, soups, mixed veg- etables, casseroles or sauces. Tomatoes do not  rehydrate well for use. in salads. For further  information give me a call at 243-1386.  1997-98 Directory is  on its Way...  ~<S •  from the l!ltchen of Klt Anderson  CHICK PEA SPREAD  Puree In food processor until smooth:  19 oz. tan Chick Peas (drained)  3 Tbs. lemon juice  l/!I stlcl! unsalted butter (soft)  Salt and pepper to taste  3 oz. cream cheese  Se"e at room temperature with crackers.  (Source: Gourmet Magazine 1/86 -pg. 60)  .•........  from the l!ltchen of Unda 4 Mille Douglas  SMOKED SALMON LOG  tit) I cup canned salmon  1/8 tsp. salt  8 oz. cream cheese  1/8 tsp. liquid smoke  ~ !I tsp. minced onion or shallots  I tsp. chopped parsley  ~  I tsp. horseradish  Mil Ingredients and roll Into log and refrigerate. Roll  In chipped petans and/or chopped parsley. Se"e with crackers.  from the l!ltchen of Unda Ga"ln  CAROLL'S CRAB DIP  1- 8 oz. pl!g. Philadelphia Cream Cheese  I tin crab meat  l/!1 pl!g. Knorr V~elable Soup mil  Roll Into a ball. conr with sesame seeds.  Garnish with parsley.  from the l!ltchen of PATRICK CHIARITO  C:J.  ROASTED PEPPER QUICHE  1 cup puree of  3 eggs (slightly beaten)  roasted red peppers  t/!1 cup sour cream  '~  !I cloves garllc  t/t cup grated parmesan  \!.,;,)  1/!I tsp. cayenne  I pl!g. (!I rounds)  V  t .4 tsp. salt  refrigerated pie dough  Puree peppers, garlic, cayenne and salt. Add eggs,  sourcream and cheese. Mil well. In t !I cup mini muffin tin,  ®  press dough circles (cut .1/4" larger than tin). flll 3/4 full.  Place on center racl! of oven. Balle i5 minutes at 375 degrees.  Makes 24-!18 small quiches.  Look for your new  SHHA Directory of Residents  any day now! And do check out  the advertisers who supported  its publication.  ~~  ~~~; ' '":.:  ~,., _  .. ~~  j.9911;:~  l)~~  GREAT HARVEST .  · The Bread Store For  Every Bread Your Heart Desires  European Breads:  11200 Montgomery  {at Juan Tabo)  293-8277  Crusty  French,  Italian &  and  4801 Montano Rd  {at Taylor Ranch Dr.)  899-2566  Home  Style Breads:  ~r~...._  ~:.'ii  Whole Wheat,  White,  Fruit Filled & Cheese.  6(e.Ot~H~rvey  ~~~  Bread Co~  Stay Loose & Have Fun!  Visit Us For Breads With Pizzazz.  Free Your Imagination.  Make Every Meal Memorable.  THE SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION  SUMMER- 1997  275-9141  5850 Eubank Blvd .• ~E  Wolk-ins Welcome• lirthday ParHes •Git Certlftcates  ~kf Trips • Showen • Anytime  Grace Lutheran Church  "And my God shd suppl,! d )'O&I nffd according b  His richH In gkuy by Clrist Je11A. •  (P/;i;pp1 ..... ,,.)  SundaySeMces:Sam, 10:45am  SundayScllocl:9:30am  {Nln«y avaiable)  7550 Eubank NE (..k.rst south of Paseo del Norte)  823-9100  ~verend R.nd., L Goller, Pubr  T R A V E L  A G E N C Y  YVONNE G. CAMPBELL  Travel Consultant  Trips planned In the oomfOff of your home  1331 Juan Tal>o N.E. AlboQUerque. NM 87112  Office (505) 296-8921  Fax (505) 296-3747  Home (505) es&-<;&<2  (5051296-3188  (505) 296-!1552  Joe S•nl•ngelo  OWNER  257 Ju~n Tabo. NE  Ucenu No. 10020  A.lt>uquerque , New Meaico !7123  \llSA l1IO wu 1..CM1oe K«Qled  PARTNERS IN FITNESS  CERTIFIED PERSONAL TRAINER  19 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE  CONVENIENTLY LOCATED IN SANOCA HEIGHTS  CALL (SOS) 797-7399  Workout and diet strategies for maximum  energy and leaner toned appearance  PHELPS  CONTRACTCNG & DEVELOPMENT  Specialists in new con.stnlction. oddilions and nmad~ling  Prompt, meticulous service  Reasonable prices - Satisfaction guarante<d  821-1200 / 821-1231 (fu)  Bonded ond tn.und  NM Lie. #OSS829, GB-98, E£..98, MM-98  ~~'!!:.~/::;,~~~  TO CONSIGN OR TO BUY!  • FURNITURE •  . ~~~b~7.'~~~~~ ~l?~~~=.  AT EUBANK l SPAIN  · ~nl.lai·Sat · 1~  5200 Eubank NE (Al 11\1 Promonadt )294-3400  BILL WILLIS  EUROPEAN  AUTOMOTIVE  SPECIALISTS  MERCEDES BENZ • PORSCHE • AUDI • BMW  SERVICE • REPAIR • PARTS  135 WYOMING BLVD. NE ALBUQUERQUE, NM 87123 f505J 256-3333  JA.usica ~tudto  Nancy S. Eckert  Pia11n lnstn1ctor  ( 505) 856-0963  1s2:i Tr:imw :iy Ternce Loop N.E ·Alb .. N.M. 87122  CLASSIFIED ADS  These non-commercial ads  are printed at no cha'J-e to  members of the SHH and  run for one issue unless  a longer run is requested.  Send info to the editor, call  856-1868 or fax 856-1792.  ESTATE GARAGE SALE - LABOR DAY WEEKEND  Smday, ~  30h - Monday, Septerrber 1st ere.. SllAf  from two households. 1705 Quail Rm Com. Down the  Slreelfrom~.823-1705.  FOR SAU - lOFT. WOODEN LADDER, coomercial  wade-$75. Call 850-7139.  SINGl.f Offla SPACE FOR RENT. 12 San Rafael, just  east ofTr.mway. $400 a monlh. Calli Teny al 797-7300.  HOME AWAY FROM HOME FOR YOUR BIRDS - For  Pmitting. call Carroll al 850-1155.  - - NEED A SANDIA HEIGHTS BABYSITTER! Call Lesley  I.ho al 850-7909. She is 14 years old. Responsible, rel~  able and resouceful.  .  MOTHER'S HELPER for child-en 10 mondis through 4  yen &in Swimey, 9 years old. $1 .00 per hour for each  child 'kry re;por6iJle. Relerenres available. 857 ~7- BABYSITTING for 2 )<>¥-olds & '4'· Gilie )oMs, 12 years  old, 7th grader. Received Babysitting Certification from  Carrifire Girls and is certified in Child & Infant CPR.  s 1.50 per hour for 1 child Reliable and lacs o{ fun for  child-m. 856-0963.  RESPONSIBLE EISENHOWER MIDDLE SCHOOL  STUDfNT available for babysitting on ""'6<ends. Please  call~  al 850-3355.  Albuquerque & Rio Rancho  John J. Teahan, M.D.  Board Certified Ophthalmologist  (505) 892-8885  Presbyterian Medical Plaza  1100 Lead Avenue. SE  Albuquerque, NM 87106  Rio Rancho Medtcal Cen1cr U  1316 Jaclc:Jc Rd., Ste J OO  Rio Rancho. NM 87124  Providing Comprehensive Medic•/ and Surgical Eye Care  f Sunday  October 19th, 1997  SHHA•  ttam-4pm  Sandia Heights Academv  &{;  Arts & Crafts  Bazaar  (San Rafael & Tramway)  Beat the holidav rush!  Paintings • Pottery • Hand-made Toys  Ornaments • Wreathes • Custom Clothing • Jewelry  Accessories • Cards • Specialty food Items  (Academy Bake Sale & Coffee too!)  . Call Claire Wilcox for info or exhibit space  •  856-6282  f. I  I'  t  - ~ bj :=:  ~ lfi3 ~. ~ ~ i~ lcrjl ,·  f  ~ z  ~&:  •  ~ !! ~· ~ I  r1 ~ -:~  c;·  ~p  s  I  .,  \"'\  ~  ~  1l  s~ I  "'  ~~~fog.~  °" ...  ~ ;:::  [::.~ -t;:i if  'i:)  ~('-.) ...... __ c§:  i:!:=N ~tn~ c;rl  ~t::N ~  .  '""Nn>.  ;:,-- Vo\ ("'")  ~  -.,:  ~~  ~  >- 'J• ._  - .... 0  g- 00 ~  -" CD - ~ ::3" ?.:':  .g 9.- ~  n  CD O  z2s  ;::: ~ ;:::  "'-·  :; §_ Q  ~ffi  (;tt '_'~l.  ~~:  r -::>"\  .1~- :·· \'·~~.  ._i-;·;$d  ~~·~::::.:;.;_  ~~o~  !~ ~~  :!:: .O 0 >  ~ ~ ~ :c  "'9'1 ~;::;"'"  ~ .o ... c;  ..., c:: ..... ::i:  '° .!" 0 -4  9" z )( ~  ~ 3: ~ 5  ~~ s~  ~~ o  f"  ::E  0  z  0  "'  ...,  ;ic  _,  "'  it ~  > "' "'  z  "  OJ "'  ~c ~~  3:: .0 0 c  - C Vlr- -f m  '.""'t  A  z 7.) > ;:Q  o ~~~  w..., -0 m  '-J' >  t.J1 Z - 3:: 0  ____ ,,_  Inside ..•  General Meeting  New Board Members  Board News  2  County Report  3  Claim Update  4  Bird Alarms  4  Architectural Control  5  Communications  6  New Development  7  Covenants  7  Back to School  8  Security Report  9  Resident Profile  10  Tree Ban  12  Plant of the Season  12  · South Domingo Baca  13  Ranger's Report  15  Sandia Happenings  16  Wemagination  17  Sun-Dried Tomatoes  18  SHHA Recipes  18  Arts & Crafts Bazaar  19  Classifieds  19  ·------·----·  Marshall Aungier  I  ! !  ' , .. J·  !:  J.,1·  I  1 New SHHA Board Begins  Fiscal Year 1997-98  ~1 'I  :.1  r. ,,  1: .,  11  '"  I  ·f  I'  ,11  :i  :1  PRESIDENT - M•nh•ll Aungler 858-3160  VICT PRESIDENT - Claire Wikox 856-6282  SECRETARY - Rulh Friesen 856-1593  TREASURER - Rob Loughddge 828-2808  COMMUNICATIONS,  MEMBERSHIP  TRAFFIC & SAFETY  & COMMUNITY SERVICES  Bob Brown, Chair 856-1786  Claire Wilcoic, Chair 856-6282  Jon Cashwell 856-1968  Debbie Miller 856-7271  Georg• Hight 856-6985  Irene Middleton 821-6343  MargoRoberts 821-1656  FINANCE  ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL  & COVENANT SUPPORT  Rob Loughridge, Chaiir 828-2808  John Keller 858-1767  Don Hooper, Chaiir 856-9499  Robert Thomas 856-1693  AR!:;HIT~!./RAL !:;QNTRm  GOVERNMENT LIAISQN  Chris Harmon, Chair 656-1953  George Hight, Chair 856-6985  Don Aunapu 856-2206  Barbaira Rosnagle 656-7162  Weldon Johnson 821-41 62  Bob Brown 856-17 86  Nancy Norem 821 -3368  Bill Waters 821-7262  !:;Q:LEGAL ADVl~QRS  James Wise 821-2241  Michael Gross 856-7445  Don Hooper (Ex Officio) 656-9499  Jonathain Sulin 856-692 1  COVENANT ~!.!PPORT  NEW DEVELQPMENT & PARKS  Ruth Friesen, Chair 856-1593  Lester Libo 656-7909  John Keller, Chair 858-1787  Lorrie Rice 656-7224  Jon Cashwell 656-1966  Robert Tholflas 656-1693  Lester Libo 856-7909  Barbara Rosnagle 856-71 62  Bill W•ten 821 -7262  Meet the New President  Marshall is an Albuquerque attorney in private practice concentrating _in Tax law  and Estate Planning. He graduated from the University of Rochester with a BA  in Economics and a law Degree from Gonzaga University School of law in  Washington State. He took two year.; off from his law practice in the early 1980's  to study violin making, after which he atteoded lhe Graduate Tax ProgJ<lm at the  University of Denver, earning an LLM. in Taxation. When not at worl<, you can  find Marshall swirrvning. on the golf course or hiking in the Sandia foothills.  