THE  SANDIA HEIGHTS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION December 2000 - January 2001  Thank you for your years of service  to our community!!!  By former SHHA Board Member George C. Height  Sandia Homeowners have had a true and responsible County Commissioner in Barbara  Seward. As the past Government Liaison Director for the SHHA Board of Directors, I  had many occasions to ask Barbara for her counsel and input on problems relating to  SHHA.  She was always responsive and has been a friend to the residents in Sandia  Heights. I hope that future commissioners will be as helpful. Thank you, Commissioner  Sew~mi  Ii  Thanks for the memories ...  With grateful appreciation, by Barbara J. Seward,  Bernalillo County Commissioner, District IV  ii  The old adage, "time flies when you're having fun", seems particularly  appropriate for this, my final message in the Grit as your County  Commissioner. The last eight years are evaporating into a kaleidoscope of  treasured memories.  Working with you has been a joyous, fruitful  experience. We have seen successful projects completed in the areas of  transportation, public safety, land use, parks and other ventures too  numerous to mention. None of this would have been possible without your  help and cooperation. Your support has been heartwarming. I shall cherish  the friendships forever. Thank you for allowing me to serve as your County  Commissioner the past eight years.  Paseo fframway Commercial Development .... Withdrawn for 1 year  letter from SHHA attorney:  Board of Directors  Sandia Heights Homeowners Association  P.O. Pox 20021  Albuquerque, N'M 87154-0021  Members of the Board:  There is good news in Sandia Heights. The proposal to  build a large commercial development east of Tramway  and Paseo del Norte has been withdawn by the  developer. This was the result of a well-organized effort  of the Sandia Heights Homeowners Association and the  participation of hundreds of interested residents.  First, some background. In late September, 2000,  property owner Robert Mhoon submitted an application to  Bernalillo County to create a '"mixed use" development  east of the "T" intersection at Tramway and Paseo del  Norte. Drawings showed some 90,000 square feet of  restaurants and retail uses, and only about 9,000 square  feet of residential dwellings on land zoned only for single  family residential uses. The planned access to the  develoe._ment was through a proposed east-bound leg of  the ·r intersection. so that Paseo del Norte would dead- end into the commercial center.  Neighbors and Association board members moved  quickly to find out more about the proposal. What the  application didn't say was, in the end, more important  than what the application said. The application failed to  disclose that Bernalillo County paid the developer a  quarter million dollars nine years ago because he lost  access to Tramway and lost the ability to develop the  property in commercial uses. The application failed to  disclose that the metropolitan area's Long Range Major  Street Plan didn't allow roadway access to the Mhoon  property from Tramway Boulevard. The application also  failed to support the need for a zone change from  residential to commercial.  The Association made sure that the city-county planning  commission was aware of these material omissions, and  of the Association's vehement opposition to the re-zoning  request. County planning staff recommended the  application be denied. Over 200 Sandia Heights  neighbors were  in  attendance for the  planning  commission's hearing on November 1st. By the time of  the hearing, the would-be developer's only argument was  to ask for a deferral until he could re-submit a corrected  proposal. The planning board denied the requested  delay, and  insisted that the developer give his  presentation on the merits of the re-zoning. Rather than  face a certain denial of the application, he withdrew  the application at the last minute.  The effect of Mhoon's withdraw! is that he is prohibited  from submitting another special use zone change  request on the property for one year. He has indicated  that he may spend that year seeking the permission of  the State Highway Department and the regional  transportation planning authority to allow a driveway  into his property to the east. While it is unlikely that  these entities would reverse their long-held policy, the  Association must be vigilant in monitoring such  requests. I believe it would be very difficult for Mr.  Mhoon to explain how the taxpayers paid him for  having "lost" access to Tramway and that he would still  be entitled to obtain the benefit of such access.  Special thanks for this great result are owed to many,  but here are a few: George Connor, Don Wortman,  Rick Nelson, John Jennings, Nancy Nunally, Charles  Pechewlys, and the Association's Board of Directors.  In these sometimes cynical days, it's nice to know that  citizens' voices matter and can still be heard.  It has been our pleasure to assist in this effort. Please  contact me if we can be of help in the future.  Sincerely,  David S. Campbell  Bobcat Alert  Several Bol>cats have been sighted in the area of  Tramway Lane, between Live Oak and Cedar Hill Rd. They  are not shy, as they often are seen on roofs of houses and  backyards.  The drought has caused them to come down from the  mountain looking for food. Their diet includes ral>bits,  cats and small dogs. Care should be exercised with  re(1ard to your pets and how often they are left  unattended In your yard.  So be on the ALERT!  "Food for The Inner Soul"  from the SHHA President  Recently I had the opportunity to meet and speak  with Doug West, whose serigraphs I have collected for  the past fifteen years. I was worried about meeting him  because I wanted to like him, after all, I have put his  work all over the walls in my home and look at his work  on a daily basis. In fact, the evening I headed out to  meet him we had what I considered "a Doug West sky."  What would it be like to meet someone whose  art I have collected and not like him? Th.is was a strange  but true thought. To my pleasure, he was a wonderful  warm person.  I liked him immediately and talked in  depth about his motivation to print New Mexico skies,  clouds, mountains, rivers and seasons of the sun.  I  thought for sure he either drew or photographed our  unique scenes, which are continually changing. To my  surprise he told me he visits areas and when he gets back  to his studio he draws "coloring book" lines on paper  which he then mixes ink for and starts his screen- printing. Uniquely enough, he starts all of his prints with  a colored sky - a New Mexico Sky, you know the type. I  told him I see what he sees through his work but  wondered what motivated him to do so many beautiful  vistas, all so different and yet so beautiful. He told me  he does not include machines, roadways or people in his  work and that his work was "food for his inner soul."  You may ask what does this have to do with  Sandia Heights? Well, when I first came here on a visit  in 1969, Tramway Blvd. was a gravel road and as I stood  looking out towards the West I was overwhelmed by an  inner peace. I thought I had to live someplac~ like this,  the only problem was this was the only place like this - yep one of a kind. In 1983, I returned to Sandia Heights  and it did indeed feed my inner soul.  Well, here we are in 2000, a lot has changed, it's  not 1969 anymore, but we still live in a very unique  neighborhood. We have a lot to be thankful for and I  truly am. I want to keep Sandia Heights unique and give  back to it for making me feel so good, down to my soul.  A long story you say - so what? Well, that's why  I live here and that's why I joined the homeowner's  association. Maybe even a small contribution on my part  will keep our neighborhood a place that feeds the inner  soul. I look to enjoy what we have and keep it nice for  others who want the same peace.  John F. Jennings  November 2000  Why I am involved with SHHA  by Finian Murphy, Board Member  When we first moved to Sandia Heights two  years ago, a neighbor in the Habitat 6K Homeowners  Association encouraged us to become dues paying  members of SHHA.  We moved to Sandia Heights  because of its scenic beauty and peaceful atmosphere.  Habitat 6K., where we live, has its own home owners  association and monthly dues. However, it seemed only  right that we join SHHA  since it is committed to  maintaining the beauty and peaceful atmosphere that we  chose to live in.  This past year I was encouraged to seek  membership on the SHHA Board of Directors. I did so  not out of purely altruistic motives. I like where we live.  I want to see it stay a very desirable location. The best  way of doing this is by becoming involved in SHHA. I  am also the President of Habitat 6K Board of Directors.  I want the 32 home owners in Habitat 6K to have a  voice, through me, in SHHA. All of us homeowners in  Sandia Heights have a financial investment in our homes  here.  My way of protecting my investment is by  becoming involved.  Resident Feedback Requested  At the November Board Meeting, several  residents expressed their concerns about safety on our  roads in Sandia Heights. The concern is for children,  pedestrians and bikers. If this is a concern of yours,  SHHA would like to hear from you.  SHHA has supported a neighborhood effort in  the submission of Capital Improvement "Neighborhood  Request Forms" to Bernalillo County to purchase the  property at Tramway Blvd. and Cedar Hill Rd. from the  developer. These Request Forms were responsible for  showing the County the need for a park in Sandia  Heights. The County agreed and included the purchase in  their bond issue.  The County Parks and Recreation Bond Issue  passed in the November 7th election. The County is  presently working on the formal purchase contract with  the developer. The majority of the forms submitted  suggested a small "pocket park" similar to Little Cloud  Park at Tramway and San Bernadina with the remainder  of the property retaining it's natural terrain.  SHHA would like to hear your comments or  suggestions.  Responses to:  SHHA Comments  PO Box 20021  Albuquerque, NM 87154-0021  or Fax 856-8544  October Board of Directors Meeting  By Deborah Griswold, Secretary  On October 11, 2000, the Sandia Heights  Homeowners  Association  met  at  the  Sheriffs  Substation. A quorum of sixteen Board members was  present as well as several guests. The meeting was  called to order by President John Jennings at 7:08 PM.  Phil Garcia of Kraemer and Garcia provided a brief  presentation as an agent of Bob Mhoon, who was  pursuing a zoning change and special use permit for  development of the property at the intersection of  Tramway and Paseo del Norte as a "village center".  Reports were given by the Treasurer, and the  Architectural Control, Communications, Traffic and  Safety, New Development, and Ad Hoc Commercial  Development Committees. The 2000 - 2001 Budget  was approved.  Bob Christman reported on the County's  progress in obtaining the vacant property at Cedar Hill  and Tramway. The County's offer had been accepted.  The County asked for SHHA' s support to get the Bond  approved. The Board approved a motion for the Parks  and New Development Committee to expend up to  $700 of the Committee's budget in sending a letter  reques~g-~JJPPoQrt .of the.JlO!lQ to the 87122 zip_gode  sidellt5.  -=-~~--=-----== - , .,  The Board was informed that the City and  ·  oun~ have plans for Tramway to be an e:xpressway.  motion was made and passed unanimously to write a  letter to oppose development of Tramway as an  expressway. The meeting adjourned at 8:42PM.  '  ·,  .  \  -~  Sandia Heights Wildflower  and Garden Club  B : Diane M. Mueller  The January 2001 meeting of the Sandia  Heights Wildflower and Garden Club will be held on  Wednesday, January 17, 2001 at the home of Dick and  Janice Stumph, 232 Spring Creek Ct. which is at the far  northern end of Sandia Heights.  Any Sandia Heights resident interested in  gardening is invited to attend.  The speaker will be Michael Martin Melendrez  who is the owner of Trees That Please in Los Lunas, ~  USDA Plant Specialist, and a Principal in Watch It  Grow Soil Nutrient Program.  Michael's topic will  be: "Building Ecologically Sound Landscapes and the  Plants That Help Us Do That".  A March meeting is . scheduled for Wednesday  March 21 at the home of Diane M. Mueller.  Judith  Phillips will be the speaker.  Treasurer's Report  B  Rick Nelson, Treasurer  Much had to be considered while creating a  budget that would best serve the members of Sandia  Heights Homeowners Association. Projects to do, the  Grit to publish, having staff to answer your questions  and those unexpected things--more than $7,500.00  legal expense to help oppose the proposed commercial  development at Tramway and Paseo and on and on.  The first thing done was to create three reserve  funds to insure the association can meet its current and  future responsibility to its members. The three reserve  funds are: Operations reserve, Legal reserve, and Open  Space reserve. Each fund was set up in the amount of  $20,000.00. These funds are in CDs that have no  penalty for early withdrawal.  Each Committee has been provided operating  funds for the year.  Funding for the new office is  included also. It might be of interest to you that the  monthly rent [not including staff or utilities] on the  office costs each member household 55 cents per  month. This 5 5 cents provides a place for staff to work  and you a place to get information and to meet with  staff and board members. Having the office has also  provided board members a central place to meet and  work with easy access to information they need.  Our hope is that SHHA will now be able to  provide much faster and improved service to its  members.  We did not have room in this new Grit to print  the line item budget. If any member would like a copy  of the 2000 - 2001 budget a copy may be picked up at  the SHHA office at 2B San Rafael just up the road  from the Subway.  .~~~~~~  We know the SHHA Web Page has been sick,  but help is here. Debbie Miller is now the Web  Master and is getting it in shape. Soon all of it  will be up to date. Check it out:  http://www.nmia.com/shha  NEW BOARD MEMBERS  NEEDED  Sandia Heights Homeowners' Association  (SHHA) is in search of candidates to fill nine  forthcoming vacancies on its  Board of Directors.  Sandia Heights is a great place to live.  Your help is needed to  keep it that way.  To become a candidate call the  SHHA office at 797-7793  The election will be held at the  Annual Membership meeting  June 2, 2001  At 10 am  in the basement area of the  Church of the Good Shepherd  7834 Tennyson, NE  Find more information on our Website  www.,sandiahomeowners.org  ~  SPRING LITTER CLEANUP  Saturday  April 28, 2001  9 am until 12 noon  Join your neighbors and  help clean up  Sandia Heights  Trash and recycling bags  will be handed  out at the SHHA office  2B San Rafael  Thursday and Friday 12 to 4 pm  and from 9 am Saturday, April 28th  Filled bags will be picked up from the  SHHA office by Sandia Services at  12 noon on the 28th  PITCH IN AND HELP  ~~~J E!Jfi!tri.[iij~~--- - .  For information call SHHA  No Paint, Chemkals or Hazardous Material  A.,/'...~~"'-/'-../'v''-./'v',/'-./'..,,....,_"'-J'v~,-...,_,'v"v"A •""'- "'""'"'-......_."-./V......_,....._,"-""""'-"'-"'- 'v"..··"-'"' '-''-A.,"'-""''- °""V'- ·v  r- SHHAIMPORTANTDATES  Spring Litter Cleanup  April 28, 200 I  [see inside for information]  County Zoning Hearing April 26, 200 I  [A hearing regarding zoning changes in North  A lbuquerque Acres will be held at 6:00pm at the  City Council/County Commission Chambers at  One Civic Plaza]  Regular SHHA Meeting  ·~  May 9, 200 I  [Sheriff Sub-Station, Eubank Blvd. & Holly  Ave.]  Annual Membership Meeting  June 2, 2001 at IOam at:  The Church of the Good Shepherd  7834 Tennyson, NE  Watch for further information regarding the  Annual Meeting in the Grit and on the  SHHA Website:  www.sandiahomeowners.org  A Little tJ'tit will be published when there is new  and important information for Sandia Heights residents.  ci  2  .-w  z  (/)(9  lO  - C <(  t--ll1  (") :::>  ~~Q~g  o::o<C- .....  oa..o...2w  (/J  .  a::: :::>  w~ wO  0:: :::>  a.. :::>  0.  a:i  _J  <(  i?!\\~;':::  ,, ·.~  (~ 1  ¢ ·  C •  I  l '1  '""'  ~"  ff"i  ~,.  Cf}  r.J:!  ~~:fT~  ~  t~  00  (.)  n""I  ~  I  >1  N  ~i  r.IJ N  -~  z"""  #  ' i?"'  ~t  ,..., 00  ~t ~;.~  ;~ "n' ~ :Z  ~~; ~1  (.;. '"" ·<: r~1  , .,., ,,, ·- (;  ~....:;:::)  47 ~ ~ ""'  (j>  - """  ~ oi:il::~  (~ ·""'~ ~  fl• >'·-t ::::>  f,•  ' '  ,j, ~l ...1 Cl  ~t  ""'~ ::::>  #  .....  Ff'i  (jo  ,.1:1 ·~ ~  •+ o""F=i  ;1 ,,_,1"')<  SHHA COFFEE 2000  at the home of  Silvia and Martin Inkelas  On Saturday morning, October 28, Martin and  Sylvia Inkelas were the gracious host and hostess of the  SHHA Fall Coffee. The Inkelas home is a wonderful  montage of tapestries, unique collectables, international  photos, candles, framed florals and live greenery.  Few guests noticed the inclement weather outside as  they chatted with neighbors, friends, and visitors. Hot  teas and coffee with a gounnet selection of breads,  muffins, and fruits were served to the fifty-two guests.  Holiday Open House  at the New SHHA Office  December 9, lOAM to 2PM  On Saturday, December 9, lOAM to 2PM, an Open  House is scheduled at the new SHHA Office at 2B, San  Rafael, just up the road behind the Subway building.  Have some morsels and hot wassail as you tow- the new  office. Please plan to attend this next event.  These socials are a wonderful opportunity for  SHHA homeowners to see neighbors, network, discuss  relevant issues and perhaps meet a new friend.  COMMUNICATIONS, MEMBERSHIP  AND COMMUNITY SERVICE  COMMITTEE  Melanie Christman, Chair  The Communications Committee, with the help  of the office staff and volunteers, has been tediously  working at updating and correcting the SHHA data base.  This data base generates the labels for all mailings to  ow- residents. The committee would like to thank all  those members who worked on this project: Gloria  Nelson, Joan Goldberg, Martha Sutter, James Anderson,  and committee members Rick Nelson and Melanie  Christman.  The  2001  Directory/Resident's  Guide  is  forthcoming. It is sent to all members of SHHA. When  your Directory arrives, please check your listing. If it is  incorrect, please fill out the form included and send the  correction to the SHHA office. Corrections can also be  filled out on the web (www.nmia.com/shha) or e-mailed  to the office at shha@rmria.com.  In order to correct many of the communication  problems that we have had for years and to better serve  ow- residents, SHHA has established an office in Sandia  Heights. This new office is state-of-the-art, equipped  with new computers, fax machine, copier and multiple  phone lines. The office is staffed with two people dilling  the hours of 12 noon to 4PM, Monday thru Friday.  James Anderson is the Office Administrator and Lisa  Jacobsen is the Administrative Assistant for the  Arclritectural  Control  and  Covenant  Support  Committees. If you call the office dilling regular hours,  you will speak to a person! A huge "thank you" goes to  Rick Nelson whose tireless effort made it all happen.  We invite all residents to meet James and Lisa,  board members,  and tour ow- facility at the  Open  House on Saturday December 9th, lOAM - 2PM.  Do you have a favorite "Sandia Heights" photo?  We'd like to create a "gallery" at the office, featuring  photos of local flavor. If you have a photo you'd like to  contribute, please drop it off at the office dilling regular  office hours ....... Noon - 4PM, Monday thru Friday.  A memberslrip campaign will be next on our  agenda. We want to encourage non-members to consider  joining the effort that is being put forth to improve  Sandia Heights.  All articles of interest will be considered for the Grit. Deadline for the next Grit is January 5th  is published bimonthly as the  official newsletter of the  SANDIA HEIGHTS  HOMEOWNERS  ASSOCIATION  P.O. Box 20021  Albuquerque, NM  87154-0021  Phone: 505-797-7793  Fax: 505-856-8544  e-mail: shha@nmia.com  Web Page:  http://www.nmia.com/shha  GRIT EDITOR  Communications Committee  Melanie Christman, Chair  PRODUCTION  Rick Nelson  NEW OFFICE  Located at:  2B San Rafael, NE  Sandia Heights,  Albuquerque, NM  Now Open  Hours 12 noon to 4PM  Monda  New Members  are always  Welcome  Come join your neighbors  help make Sandia Heights  even better than it is!  Dues are $ 5.00 per month  To join contact us by:  Phone: 505-797-7793  Fax: 505-856-8544  e-mail: shha@nmia.com  or call  Sandia Service: 505-857-8924  ACC Committee Report  L.A. Bannowsky, Committee Chair  As we move toward winter and the Holidays, the seasonal slowdown in  projects for review by your Architectural Control Committee has still not evidenced  itself. The Committee is averaging four applications weekly, primarily for remodeling  of, or additions to, existing homes.  Designing and planning these projects in  accordance with the restrictive covenants of Sandia Heights is the type of proactive  effort which helps to maintain the unique character of our neighborhood. The desire to  participate actively in the protection of our area by voluntarily adhering to the  restrictive covenants of our individual units and utilizing the application and review  process is gratifying. This cooperative approach is also a major factor in maintaining  and even enhancing property values.  Lisa Jacobsen has just started as our new Administrative Assistant, supporting  the Architectural Control Committee and the Covenant Support Committee, and is  rapidly learning our processes and procedures. She will be in our new office between  noon and 4:00 pm, Monday through Friday. Lisa is available during those hours to  answer your questions, provide application forms, and provide any other necessary  assistance relative to Architectural Control or Covenant Support. Welcome Lisa!  Covenant Support Committee  Susan Carlow, Committee Chair  With the more frequent publication of our SHHA newsletter, the Grit, we have  the opportunity to feature and discuss isolated issues within the covenants, often  forgotten, or totally unknown to residents. In this Grit I would like to highlight the  subject of the "unused vehicle."  The Covenant Support Committee has received an increasing number of calls  regarding abandoned or unused vehicles parked on streets and in public parking areas in  some of our neighborhoods. Although, the subject of the "unused vehicle" does not  appear in all Sandia Height's covenants, it does predominately in the newly developed  areas and always in the garden home and town home units. The covenants in these units  state that, "No unused automobiles or vehicles of any kind except as herein above  provided shall be stored or parked on any lot except in a closed garage. An "unused  vehicle" shall be defined as any vehicle which has not been driven under its own power  for a period of 30 consecutive days or longer. In the event any unused vehicle remains  parked on any tract or lot within the property boundaries, the Grantor shall have the  right to remove the same after 48 hours notice to the owner thereof, the expenses to be  charged against the owner thereof, and such charges shall become a lien upon the  recording of a notice of lien and shall be enforceable."  The presence of unused automobiles in neighborhoods where lots are small and  roads are cramped creates an environment that is inconsistent with the intention of the  original developers and the beauty of the natural setting. If you have vehicles, that are  unused, or not currently registered, it is your responsibility to remove them from the  street or the lot on which they are parked. Adherence by all residents to the covenants  and county regulations is paramount in assuring that Sandia Heights remains an attractive  place to  live, and that we do not suffer from the blight of abandoned and unused  vehicles scattered through our neighborhoods. For unused vehicles or not currently  registered  vehicles in the street call, the County Sheriff at 768-4160.  For unused  vehicles on a lot call, the SHHA office at 797-7793.  ~  ~  About More Access to Forest Service Lands and  Trails in Sandia Heights: Editors note: Some  residents have indicated interest in having more access to  Forest Service Land and Walking Trails in Sandia Heights.  Now and in the future the Grit will be addressing this issue  and publishing comments from residents. We urge all  residents to voice their opinion on this imoortant issue.  Kathy and I, as residents, have been quite  interested in trail access because of our proximity to the  trailhead on Cedar Hill. Since "No Parking" signs were  posted at the top of Cedar Hill, without any opportunity  for neighborhood discussion, and there are a few cars that  now park on Pinon Hill Pl., although not yet obtrusive, we  believe that it is wise for us and other residents of Sandia  Heights to be part of any further decisions regarding trail  access or networking of circles and streets in Sandia  Heights.  I have attended a couple of meeting of the parks  and trail access committee (not sure of the exact name),  which have been informative. I have been told that there  are those who want to restrict further discussion or  consideration regarding access to forest or trails through  Sandia Heights. While Kathy and I are opposed to a series  of trails and access routes throughout Sandia Heights to  provide access to the National Forest and especially to  provide "easier" accessibility" between existing roads in  Sandia Heights, we are also opposed to the any organized  effort to stifle discussion on this very important issue. We,  as residents of Sandia Heights, are not the owners or  caretakers of the parks or the trails through the wilderness  area. Access of one sort or another will be maintained and  perhaps expanded. That being the case, we should be  prepared with an informed opinion on the type of access  that should be available. Frankly, I believe that public  parking at the tram and Elena Gallegos is sufficient and  that access to other areas by way of existing roads and  "consensual easements" is sufficient.  We should be aware of any unobtrusive, if there  are any, and other proposals there might be for additional  access. We can do this  intelligently only by being  informed. The Board should, if it has not already done so,  schedule a special meeting to hear the proposal or  presentation of the Resource Group. Primary emphasis  should be given to this matter at the meeting and above all,  notice of the meeting should be well publicized. At this  point I am very skeptical and an opponent of trail  networking or additional trail access through Sandia  Heights but, I must admit, an uninformed skeptic.  Executive Committee reply to the input from  Dennis Falk re ardin Access and Trails  Dear Dennis:  I want to thank you, for myself and all of the  SHHA Board, for taking your time to express your feeling  about trails.  Please be assured that there is no organized or any  other type of effort to stifle discussion of trails or any  other subject. There has been Board action taken to  clarify the SHHA position on trails and access. A motion  was inadvertently passed that could be taken to mean that  the SHHA Board of Directors supported trails and access.  This motion was premature in that there has been no  request for input from  residents of Sandia Heights;  therefore there was a recision of that motion.  The Board of directors is mandated to support the  views and desires of the majority of residents of Sandia  Heights, not the special interest desires of any individual  or group.  The only way this can be done is by seeking ·  input from residents before the Board can take a fair and  just position on any major issue.  To the best of our  knowledge the advocates of access and trails have not  contacted even the people that would be most affected,  those who would have to give up part of their land for  right of ways, or have the problem of parked cars as you  mentioned. Therefore, your points concerning discussion  and well advertised meetings are well taken.  The advocates of access and trails were at this  '  most recent Board meeting, invited to write an article for  the next Grit, scheduled to be out prior to December 1st.  It is our hope that they will take full advantage of this  offer. Those in opposition have the same right to place an  article in the Grit.  Again thanks for your interest  Rick Nelson  Treasurer, SHHA  IP 11111i!11I'!';;111111i!II11111 !I I\ Ip I I I 1111111!11111; l' i II  i:.:. \..;  '=>' Q '\ Y..?..?.. '\ L..'<i  z nn 01 - ql6J;}qW;):J;}(I 4;);,!JJO aql J"B 'asnon uado ABP!IOH ~QJ Jaqmamal{  ZZIL8 WN :mbJ<lnbnqyy  tIN pm}! 1E<lH )[::mm 8t~  l<llHW EJO~J\ ?fl Ul[Of  <J;JRJSOd SSl?[) JS.I!~  .... ·---------; z;~Q7.GR·? ,..-ffT>·.  : : ' L' r.. n :; ~E5:fr~;;,-~;/ ' I" ·,,, '.  ,.  it.. ~ U  •• •, :! '' i!zt  - "  ~~{ ,~ ,J (:: JO.S ~ ~iJQ 1 i  1 m11· s· , ,n~·n 1~~1  .. ··\o  .' I  •  ,Jr  {Ju-.1<1  .-~  """-)  ., ;  .~~~.;w;:;.~-~-~ ·~\..<>'~--. _c,'-,°/  »  . -~---~---/-,:U~J'-P:- . _.,_,,.,-.......:Ji. ·.J,.-J . ..:t  ,. c··----··--:~~: ~~~  ~':..-7-'·::~· ..::.·.:::li  I  THE TRAIL BACK  by: Wally Cooper, Sandia Heights  I finally found that old path up the hill. It was  now a narrow paved road. I drove slowly, hoping to see  some recognizable feature.  Where was our little  farmhouse? I imagined in my mind's eye the small three- room house. I pictured the old wood stove in the kitchen,  and even smelled the pot of boiling coffee and baking  bread, sending their aromas through the house. My dear  grandmother was there, jostling about doing her routine  duties.  I blinked and looked carefully about. Therewere  no signs of this humble home. Over there was a quite  luxurious home, and another near by.  Nothing looked  familiar.  Then something, for some reason, caught my  attention.  Nothing specific, just a small grassy area  amongst the brambles. I came to a stop. That spot held  my attention. Just why did this grassy spot demand my  attention? I stepped out of the car and made my way  toward the grassy area. Then I stopped cold!  In this grassy area - that tree.  It couldn't be!  There was a very tall, old tree, and the surroundings  seemed very familiar. I placed my hands on the aged  bark and peered into the top branches. Were my senses  playing tricks? Could this be that supple, little sapling  I  l'WO-tSIL8 WN  '<inbJ<inbnqrv I zooz xog: Od  uoq11possv Sl8!1i\oewoH s1~~\<JH R!PITBS  that more than 70 years ago I whirled around and hanged  gaily from its outstretched, young limbs?  I closed my eyes to bring back memories of my  childhood :fun times. "Well, who have we here?" I was  stunned to hear words coming from nowhere. "I have  grown tall, reaching for the sky, trying to see as  far as I could. I have seen some warming summers and  harsh winters since we shared our younger days." All this  couldn't be so, but I wanted it to.  "And about you,  laddie?"  111 have had happy days and sorrowful days,  11 I  whispered back.  111 have reached for high expectations  and far places."  "We had some very good times together. I miss  those days. My dear friend, I wish you all the best from  here on. Stand tall, laddie.  11  I opened my eyes again, and strained to see the  very top branches of my old friend.  A butterfly flitted  toward me, hesitated for just a moment, and disappeared  into the distance. As if to say, "this is life; it comes and it  fades away."  I walked to my car, turned and looked up into the  furthest reaches of this dear old friend's foliage. Its leaves  rustled in the wind, waving a good-bye. The Trip Back,  in this unforeseen way, was ever so rewarding. Our lives  had become one, starting far in the past. We were really  still one. We will remain so ... and on  