Phyllis Moore, the SHHA president, extended gratitude for the successful annual meeting and provided updates Varied issues, including reporting restrictions, flood plain worries, and tree problems were addressed. Volunteers were sought for roles like in the Wildflower Club. New board members; Ana Acosta, Sandra Brown, George Connor, Sarah Pirkl, Jon Cashwell, Joe Pappe, and Michael Pierce were introduced and have already started bringing innovative ideas to role. The president appreciates office staff Sheraz Saint Lôt and Betsy Rodriguez for their assistance and smooth operations. SHHA has implemented a 45 degree angle cut along roadsides to enhance visibility. However, overgrown chamisa or trees blocking signs are still an issue. Residents are asked to report these issues to the SHHA office or the county. The Sandia Heights Coffeehouse Concert Series will host bluegrass artists Steve Smith and Chris Sanders on September 18. New services, such as notary services, tree lottery, and covenant enforcement, are extended to SHHA members. The office now has six corporate tram passes for discounted commuting. Sandia Heights Services asks subscribers to inform them when leaving town, so residences can be put on a vacation watch list. People are encouraged to subscribe or update their email information. The Covenant Support Committee has revised complaint filing guidelines. Now, individuals don't need to negotiate with their neighbors before filing the complaint, but they must be SHHA members or directly impacted by the violation. Efforts are being taken to combat threats to water resources and utilities infrastructure due to invasive Siberian Elm. The Community Services and Membership Committee has been working to develop and maintain the neighborhood. An EverGuard Solar seminar held on August 10 introduced guidelines for photovoltaic (PV) systems installation in homes. To meet an annual need of 10,000 KWh of electric power, an array of nearly 30 panels is suggested. Ongoing ACC projects and community involvement opportunities were discussed, and services like notary and classified ads are available for free to SHHA members. The Church of the Good Shepherd will hold community events like Vacation Bible School and the Sandia Heights Art Tour, while the annual photo contest for the 2011 Resident Directory & Guide is also initiated.