In the October 2010 message of the SHHA, Vice President Kate Fry addressed various community matters including: The changing seasons and shorter daylight hours, advising caution and the use of reflective vests for early and late walkers. Ongoing elm sapling removal along Tramway Road and how to request tree removal services. The 2011 Tree Lottery running from June 12th, 2010 to the SHHA Annual Meeting, offering members a chance to get tree removal expenses paid by the association. Rules and eligibility information can be found on page 3. Bear visit management, advising members not to leave food outdoors and report sightings. Property owner responsibilities under Bernalillo County Code Section 66 225 to maintain vision for traffic safety, with non compliance resulting in liability for obstruction related issues. Benefits for SHHA members such as office and notary services, annual classified ads, Sandia Tram passes, discounted safety vest, and Merchant Benefits Program with discounts from local businesses. The importance of home maintenance and the need to seek approval from Architectural Control Committee for exterior repairs. A new curbside recycling program, in which residents are requested to place their recyclables in clear plastic bags along with their regular waste for alternate weekly collection. There were also updates about Bernalillo County, including a $25 million Eubank Boulevard expansion project, planned programs for Metropolitan Detention Center inmates, a 2% salary increase for all employees, and a focus on attracting more movie and TV productions. The SHHA board approved two amendments to the Bylaws to be voted in June 2011. The Architectural Control Committee (ACC) is responsible for reviewing home constructions and modifications, incorporating meaningful neighborhood input. The office hours, free services to members, and Tree Lottery Program were reiterated. A list of approved projects since the last update, as well as how to access the online GRIT newsletter were provided. The message included announcements about upcoming events like a teen program and Holiday Show at the Church of the Good Shepherd and a photo contest by the SHHA, aimed to keep residents informed and engaged in community activities.