The SHHA released key community updates in September 2010. President Phyllis Moore highlighted potential risks around school children's safety and recent bear sightings, informing residents of measures to maintain safety. Such measures include reporting bear sightings to the NM Game and Fish Department, removing ripe fruits, bringing bird feeders indoors at night, and not leaving trash out. For community operation, meetings were held with key personnel, including a discussion with Dave Mitchell, the Director of Operations and Maintenance for Bernalillo County about streets' services. Concerns about motorcycle noise on Tramway Blvd were addressed, advising residents to use the BC Sheriff and Fire Department's non emergency number. An effort was made to remove roadside elm trees affecting community vegetation health. Upcoming events that were announced include the Sandia Heights Coffeehouse Concert and a Meet and Greet with new board members. The residents were also reminded about SHHA office hour, services, free tram passes, the contractor evaluation binder, and the home improvements approval process. They were also informed about the benefits of the SHHA Merchant Program offering discounts from several merchants. A SHHA Meet 'N' Greet event was scheduled for September 25, featuring George Schroeder who will be discussing the new County septic system regulations. A section of the newsletter included advertising for local businesses and services. Details about the Sandia Heights' patrol monthly report and ways to prevent car vandalism were outlined. Homeowners were advised to be familiar with unit covenants to maintain neighborhood quality. Information regarding previous approvals for structural improvements was delivered, managed by the Architectural Control Committee. The newsletter concluded with announcements of church events, a proposed local book club, and the annual Sandia Heights Artists Studio Tour. Finally, the SHHA is accepting entries for its annual photo contest to select a cover image for the 2011 Sandia Heights Resident Directory and Guide with a deadline of November 5.