The 'SHHA Speaker Series #3: CODE TALKER' event, hosted by Chester Nez and Judith Schiess Avila, is scheduled for October 27, 2012, at the Church of the Good Shepherd and is open to SHHA members and their guests. This announcement comes after a detailed story by Ann Zimmerman about a memorable childhood Halloween school carnival and costume contest, emphasizing lessons of humility and dedication. SHHA office hours, upcoming board meetings, and safety matters will be posted on the SHHA website. Safety vests can be purchased at the office, and SHHA members can enjoy discounts from participating local merchants. Their membership includes access to free Tram passes, notary services, copying and faxing services, and more. Updates on the Sandia Heights Services (SHS): Trash bin and recycle bin distribution has been completed to over 4,000 customers. Customers are reminded to bag trash and place recyclables loose, except for shredded paper. Services like special pickups for uncontained trash, appliances, or furniture are also available. Changes at the Bernalillo County Commission: The amendment to the Bernalillo County Waste Water Ordinance has been withdrawn, hence no routine 5 year septic system inspections. Homeowners still bear responsibility to maintain a functional wastewater system. Community Warning: Bears may venture into neighborhoods due to acorn crop reduction. Residents are reminded to keep their trash indoors until the morning of pickup, bring bird feeders indoors at night and maintain closed kitchen doors and windows after dark. Approved ACC projects activity includes reroofing, landscaping, fence replacements, and mailbox installations. Burglary prevention tips were given, stressing the importance of enhancing home security. The Church of the Good Shepherd holds Sunday services and school, and is hosting a Model Railroad Open House on October 14, 2012. The Sandia Heights Artists organized the Ninth Annual Studio Tour and have called for entries for the 2013 Photo Contest. Submissions are due by November 2 and can be sent via email to sandiaheights@comcast.net.