The SHHA recently held officer elections, elected Ann Zimmerman as President, Joe Pappe as Vice President, George Connor as Secretary, and Ann Marie Caffrey as Treasurer. In the upcoming Annual Meeting, details on proposed bylaws amendments, election of new Board members, and more will be discussed. The SHHA clarified that summer concerts aren't a nuisance, but problems associated with it would be handled by county and government authorities. The popular Tram passes benefit continues for members and dues are collected monthly, while only SHHA members are entitled to purchase various items from the office. Waste collection protocols are changing from September 1, but the SHHA is offering a free green waste pickup from 21 25 May, with details on their website. Points regarding vandalism incidents, closures, and prevention of wildfires, residents can find more information on the SHHA site. Members also receive discounts from local vendors, which renters can also benefit from as long as property owners maintain their SHHA membership. Individuals such as Linda Caldwell offering moving and real estate services bring tremendous experience for residents around North Albuquerque. The community is also learning about local wildlife, such as Vinegaroon, a whiptail scorpion that sprays acetic acid when threatened but isn't deemed a threat to humans. On the other hand, citizens must take measures to protect the bears. The county's new “My Vote Centers” voting system is set to increase convenience by reducing the number of voting locations and allowing citizens to vote anywhere. Meanwhile, an activity log provides an insight into various approved projects around the area such as property renovation, landscaping, painting, and more. With REMAX Elite promoting properties and sales in Sandia Heights, the area has seen a fluctuation in sales and prices per square foot, especially for properties on lots greater than .50 acres. Prices in 2012 averaged at $180 per sq. ft. Finally, Sandia Heights residents enjoy community events and meetups, including the Sandia Heights Artists' studio tour.