The SHHA has numerous key staff members including President Roger Hagengruber, Vice President Susan McCasland, Secretary Martin Kirk, and Treasurer Randy Tripp. The SHHA Office is located in Albuquerque and managed by Betsy Rodriguez and Teresa Gonzales. Due to an influx in operating costs, SHHA dues will increase from $8.50 to $9.00 monthly. A total of 8 tram passes daily will be provided at a cost of $7.50 each. The Annual Meeting for 2022 will be held online on February 19, 2022. Nominating Committee Chair, Susan McCasland, introduces Kathleen McCaughey as a SHHA Board of Directors candidate. It's forbidden to store trash bins visibly, violating the neighborhood covenant. SHHA Key Tags provide special discounts to local residents with participating merchants. Contact the Office for more information or to request one. Notifications of attendance to board and committee meetings should be made at least 24 hours in advance. It's deemed harmful and illegal to feed deer in New Mexico due to potential health risks. Feeding deer with unnatural foods may cause dangerous digestion issues which can be fatal. There have been instances of deer being infected with coronavirus, although transmission from deer to humans remains unproven. However, veterinarians suggest taking precautions when hunting and ensure the venison is properly cooked before consuming. Contact the SHHA Office to purchase safety vests and tram passes. SHHA memberships are separate from security memberships, with the latter provided by Sandia Heights Services. An ACC Color Reference Guide can be borrowed from the Office for up to a month with a $20 refundable deposit. SHHA members can avail discounts from participating merchants. Various holidays celebrated in December are outlined, such as Hanukkah, Christmas, New Year's Eve, and a number of others. Japanese New Year traditions include consuming long noodles and visiting temples or shrines at midnight. The ACC has approved tasks like door replacement, installing roof mounted photovoltaic panels, garage additions, and stucco repair. Albuquerque is popular for its unique Christmas lights. The "Cork & Fork" dining activity, held at member homes, will resume with bimonthly dinners. The SHHA office will be closed from December 24, 2021 to January 3, 2022 for the holidays.