The Sandia Homeowners' Association (SHHA) is comprised of a board, key committee chairs, and office staff. The leadership includes President Roger Hagengruber, Vice President Susan McCasland, Secretary Martin Kirk, Treasurer Randy Tripp, and Board Members Dale Arendt, Joe Boyce, David Crossley, Elizabeth Edgren, Tracey Goodrich, Robert Hare, Fenton McCarthy, Mike Pierce, Hugh Prather, and Bob Thomas. Office Staff includes Betsy Rodriguez and Teresa Gonzales serving as Lead Administrator and Administrator respectively. Committee Chairs include Crossley (Architectural Control), Thomas (Covenant Support), McCasland (Communications & Publications and Nominating), Edgren (Community Service & Membership), Tripp (Finance), and Boyce (Parks & Safety). The SHHA is seeking homeowners to join their Board of Directors, allowing community members to contribute to finance, architectural and covenant issues, environment, safety, and membership matters. Interested individuals can submit statements on the SHHA website. The 18th Annual Sandia Heights Artists Studio Tour, led by Edgren, is set for September, allowing residents to visit the home studios of local artists. "The Last Howlelujah, Tales from the Trail," an event at St. Chad's Church features a book signing and lecture by Father Bill Miller, with proceeds going to Watermelon Mountain Ranch and includes dog adoption opportunities. A reminder for Sandia Heights residents to maintain vigilance towards their security and to consult emergency, non emergency, and utility assistance contacts as relevant. The community is reminded of office hours, board meetings, and office closure on Labor Day. The SHHA informs residents of community services available such as notary services, machine copies, email alerts, and purchasing safety vests and tram passes. Community members are urged to maintain landscapes and control weed growth after monsoon rains for neighborhood aesthetics, safety, and property values. ACC Activity Log records include information on various community projects including the installation of Photovoltaic Panels, house siding replacement with stucco, driveway repair, replacement of windows, etc. ACC renovations consist of window replacements, re stuccoing, re roofing, landscaping, and the replacement of evaporative coolers with refrigerated air units. A wildfire video educates the community on how to protect homes from wildfires, with additional advice on managing solar loading in homes during summer. Upcoming local events include the Sandia Heights Artists community event in late September, the return of the 'Cork & Fork' Dining Activity, and an annual photo contest with entries due by early November. The SHHA office will close on Monday, September 6th, 2021 for Labor Day.