The SHHA recently held its annual meeting, which included changes to board composition and outlined new objectives for the year. This includes: Completion of the water intervention program Improvements to infrastructure, such as roads and parks Amplifying security and safety measures Strengthening covenant and architectural control programs Enhancement of existing services and strategic planning The Board invites members' input and a directory naming SHHA representatives is forthcoming. An ongoing challenge is the proposed Stipulation from Sandia Peak Utility Company, which does not account for issues in the rate case scenario, such as perceived unfairness to residential users and concerns about concessions to commercial entities. A commitment to pursuing this intervention effort persists despite limited resources, and community involvement and financial support are encouraged. The local flora, inclusive of the penstemon, a resilient North American native, is highlighted. Concerns from County Public Works over road shoulder sanitation leads to residents being tasked to clear obstructions, which will be picked up by designated county personnel. Regarding community events, sign ups for a travel group's Navajo Lake camping trip and the imminent Holiday Bazaar are ongoing; cancellations are expectant in case of insufficient participation. Issues of roaming dogs leading to public nuisance and health hazards are raised by a local resident and calls for responsible pet ownership underscored. A community directory will be distributed in early July and article submission and advertising opportunities in THE GRIT, a community newsletter, are available. C. Andy Anderson is introduced as a new board member. His family’s academic and professional achievements, languages spoken, and community involvement are mentioned. The increasing number of fire and rescue calls in District 5 because of expanding development necessitate increased resources and encourages community volunteering and donations. A Heavy Duty Rescue Vehicle and diesel powered bumper will arrive shortly, and the reopening of a fire station will improve response times. A Boy Scout Troop formation and other community services, such as pet sitting and mail collection, are noted with contact numbers for interest. The Environmental Health Department offers tips to minimize risks related to plague in the Sandia foothills and new board member, Bill Gupton, is welcomed.